
Whisper it softly, but some of John McFarlane’s shine has rubbed off since the jubilation that greeted his arrival as chairman of Barclays. Hailed as the hero who’d repeat his miracle turnarounds of Aviva and ANZ bank before it, investors hoped he’d be able to complete a rapid hat-trick at Barclays.

But three of his first promises: keep the dividend, retain Africa and make the retail bank a subsidiary of the investment bank, have all been dropped since Jes Staley’s arrival as chief executive.

Each of the U-turns had a sound reason behind it: the dividend cut gives Staley a bigger cash buffer to satisfy regulators; Africa had to go to bolster the bank’s capital levels; and the Bank of England slapped down the retail/investment bank structure for flouting the ringfencing rules. But they’re big shifts nonetheless, and, rightly or wrongly, give investors a feeling of confusion at the bank. 

That’s a major contrast with McFarlane’s focused delivery on promises in previous jobs and highlights how this is by far his toughest challenge. Tougher, possibly, than even he realised when he took it on.

From the outside looking in, then, it appears Staley is getting the upper hand over his indomitable chairman. Rumour has it there’s a sometimes scratchy relationship between the pair, but that’s not surprising when so many massive strategic decisions are having to be made.

There’s scope in today’s numbers to suggest Staley’s plans are working out: the businesses he’s decided are core to the bank were surprisingly robust. 

But investors, who have endured years of restructuring turmoil already, are facing another long haul before stability and growth return. 

I wonder if McFarlane will stick around for much longer to see if his chief executive’s work pays off.

Dominic Chappell may be charming, but I fear he’s losing touch with the real world. The idea that investors would back him to buy BHS, or that creditors would allow it, should surely be filed under “C” for cloud-cuckoo-land. 

That would be the file next to “B” for “Bizarre”. There, you’ll find the thought process behind his decision to transfer £1.5 million out of BHS UK to a business in Sweden last Tuesday, then move it back again 24 hours later.

At Sweden’s Companies House, BHS Sverige lists Chappell’s business partner Lennart Henningson as its director, and Lennart Bergström as deputy. Bergstrom told me that, as far as he’s aware, BHS Sverige has nothing to do with BHS UK despite its name (Chappell disputes this). 

The “B” folder just keeps on getting fatter.
