Confessions from the City: The finance recruiter

The dog-eat-dog world of financial recruitment is always more pleasurable when you are the one enjoying the feast.

But when you’re on the back foot, you are wrought with feelings of vulnerability. I refer to the far-too-frequent incidents where you have been tapping up a candidate for weeks, who you know would be perfect for your latest role, and you just can’t seem to close the deal.

Or the feelings of despair when your biggest client, your bread and butter, has a hiring freeze on — yet you hear through the City grapevine that it is recruiting on the sly through other sources. So the bosses keep hammering us on the floor to “make more calls and win more business”.  Easier said than done.

You often find yourself arranging meetings with hiring managers who are more interested in a free lunch, washed down with wine, fizz, brandy or vodka, at one of their Square Mile haunts. Naturally, it is always you that is left to pay the bill for the liquid lunch.

"The flood of CVs since the latest bonfire of the bankers resembles a post-tsunami scene."

The finance recruiter

We recruiters also have to accept that we frequently spend weeks helping a company to poach its latest banking or hedge fund target, only to be told the client is pulling out and no longer wants to hire. Apparently, it is suffering a “lack of funds” (it usually pops up the following week, bragging to the City about its profit).

Separately, I have heard from rival firms that a handful of investment banks used recruitment companies and then couldn’t pay them because they had cash-flow problems. The flood of CVs on to the market since the latest bonfire of the bankers resembles a post-tsunami scene.

This most recent round of Londoners sniffing out better-paid and steadier jobs is starting to inspire me to consider looking for another role. You start wondering if, in your late thirties, you are already too old for recruitment. Is the commission really worth it? Is coaxing someone who has qualifications hanging out of their backside but can’t find your London office (even with Google Maps) to take a job on three times your salary really how you want to spend the rest of your career? 

There is always someone who is more hungry than you, less tired and more willing to put up with people’s indecisiveness, and prepared to go the extra mile to pay off university debt.

But then the phone rings, and someone’s after three Oxbridge-educated, tech-savvy but experienced stars. And they need the position filling yesterday. 

So you suck it up, start trawling the database and remind yourself that a fortnight in the Algarve is only seven weeks, three days away.
