Jim Armitage: Sorting out the chaos at RBS means Ross McEwan can&apos;t get creative

Few of RBS’s long-suffering staff will weep at today’s plans to quit its 135 Bishopsgate HQ. The building’s like a Tardis in reverse; big on the outside but weirdly poky when you’re in it. 

Worse still, the designers apparently forgot to build much in the way of communal space, perhaps assuming its inhabitants would be so busy they wouldn’t have time for a coffee and a chat.

They probably got that part right. chief executive Ross McEwan and his staff have such a monstrous task sorting out the sins of the fathers at this chaotic organisation that it’s hard to imagine much feet-up chit-chat going on. 

This is a business which has 700 different legacy computer systems, enough legal action against it for the Inns to clad themselves in gold and a major bank to carve out and sell. 

The last bit, artificially creating and then selling Williams &amp; Glyn, has been engaging the services of more than 5000 IT workers for years. Yet they’re still having to delay the sale for a third time. 

"Anything but decline in its day-to-day operations should be chalked up as a victory."

Jim Armitage

Missing the European Commission’s 2017 deadline to offload W&amp;G brings with it the prospect of fines or, worse, the appointment of an independent trustee to sell the 316 branches for whatever they can get. Furthermore, don’t expect a dividend, or a sale of the government’s 73% stake, until W&amp;G has gone.

In the middle of all this, McEwan has to keep his staff motivated on less pay than most rival firms are offering, and rebuild the core retail bank at a time of zero interest rates.

Somehow, though, if you comb through it all to reach the core business, today’s numbers show the RBS and NatWest brands are actually taking a bigger share of the new mortgage market, while  its commercial bank franchise lent out 4% more than a year ago. 

Anything but decline in its day-to-day operations should be chalked up as a victory. 

The problem is, with years more crisis distraction to get through, you have to wonder how RBS will be able to keep pace with its unencumbered rivals in the meantime. 

Digital innovations, challenger banks, alternative financing are all being led by focused businesses without McEwan’s distractions.

People, in short, with time to sit around at the office coffee bar and chat about clever new ways to win customers.

The hunt for a successor for Sir Martin Sorrell faces a serious dilemma from the outset.

As one fund manager said the other day: if the board deems him so vital to the business that he is worth £70.4 million, he must be pretty much irreplaceable.
