‘Share placement essential for EcoWorld’


PETALING JAYA:
 While analysts are surprised with Eco World Development Group Bhd’s (EcoWorld) share placement exercise, they noted that the funding is needed for Eco World International (EWI) and other landbanking deals.

Kenanga Research did not anticipate the cash call to come so quickly as EcoWorld just completed its RM2.8 billion fundraising exercise last year for the land injections and the 30% stake in EWI, whose listing is targeted for mid-2016. It said the funding exercise will be a long-term positive from the balance sheet and landbanking perspectives though it is negative in the near term due to price-to-earnings ratio and revalued net asset value (RNAV) dilutions.

Kenanga Research expects EcoWorld’s net gearing to go down to 0.42-0.48 times from 0.75-0.8 times following the placement exercise, but with a dilution of 20% and 25% in earnings per share (EPS) and PER respectively each year.

Meanwhile, Maybank IB Research has lowered Eco World’s FY16/17/18 EPS estimates by 11%/20%/20% and RNAV by 9% to factor in the dilutive impact.

Kenanga Research believes that the share placement is essential for EcoWorld, especially when it has one of the highest sales targets in town to maintain.

Given the dilution impact, Kenanga Research has cut EcoWorld’s target price to RM1.55 but its “outperform” call is maintained as its share price is the biggest laggard amongst the big-cap developers and EWI’s listing should lend strength to share price performance.

MIDF Research has also maintained a “buy” call on Eco World due to its leadership in securing property sales, superior earnings growth prospects and strong branding despite a lower target price of RM1.72.

The counter rose 1 sen to RM1.29 last Friday on some 1.43 million shares done.

EcoWorld’s major shareholder Liew Tian Xiong and Sinarmas Harta Sdn Bhd will undertake 76% of the first-tranche placement. The remaining 24% will be allocated to institutional investors or independent third party investors.






















Kuala Lumpur

