
Dominic Chappell, the twice-insolvent former racing car driver who took over BHS, has claimed he is hatching a plan to buy the business back from administrators.

Chappell told the Standard he is in the US meeting potential backers to fund a deal. Such a move would enrage creditors and staff who blame Chappell and his team at Retail Acquisitions for mishandling the business and taking millions of pounds out in fees.

BHS fell into administration on Monday putting 11,000 jobs at risk. Retail Acquisitions bought the 164-store retailer for £1 last year from Topshop tycoon Sir Philip Green carrying a £571 million pension deficit. But Chappell failed to turn the business around. Green is now facing calls to be stripped of his knighthood and has been summoned to be questioned by MPs over BHS’s collapse.

Chappell said he was having an eye operation at a hospital in Boston and added: “Part of the reason I’m having it now is so I can meet investors out here. We are discussing buying [BHS] back.” Asked how likely that was, he said: “No one ever knows, but if a real deal can be put together for the good of the company to save as many jobs as possible, we’ll do it.”

A BHS spokesman responded: “Any suggestion Dominic Chappell could be successful in an attempt to regain control of BHS is pure fantasy.”

Chappell also denied he had done anything wrong last week when, after a lifeline loan deal collapsed, he moved £1.5 million from BHS UK to a separate firm BHS Sverige in Sweden. It was reputedly returned — minus £50,000 lost on foreign exchange — when BHS boss Darren Topp demanded it back.

Chappell said: “We felt we should put some money out of the trading account in the event that we could not pay legal and operational fees… However, we then decided it was better to pay it out of the UK business [and moved the money back again].”

He added: “This was just an intercompany transfer of funds.”

But BHS today said the Swedish firm had “no relationship” with the BHS Group. “We only became aware of it after learning of the bank transfer,” a spokesman said. Chappell said BHS Sverige was owned by BHS UK and was created to hold BHS operations in Sweden, France and Norway. Company filings in Sweden do not confirm its ownership, but show it was set up by Retail Acquisitions director Lennart Henningson under the name of Bildningsagenten in 2014. It changed its name in May 2015.

Chappell said: “At the end of the day the true story will come out. We did a good job trying to turn this business round. It is sad, but we ran out of road.” In a clear swipe at Green, he added: “We are taking the flak and it’s not right.”

BHS administrators have had 50 expressions of interest to buy all or some of the business which yesterday saw sales jump 80%. Its stores are continuing to trade.
