
The EU referendum represents a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to set the course of what each one of us believes will be best for the future of the UK and for generations to come.

As chief executive of the UK’s largest property company, I am asked for our views on Brexit on a daily basis. But we must remember that it is as individuals, and not as political parties, businesses or institutions that we will all cast our vote. 

Every individual will reach their decision differently, my neighbour’s vote is just as important as mine, and all views are equally valid and should be respected. 

Personally, I have no idea whether the UK will be better off in, or out of, the EU in 20, 30 or 40 years’ time. Nobody has a crystal ball and, from a long-term perspective, we are facing a complete unknown.

But the short-term implications are clear to me. If the UK votes to leave the EU on June 23, we will face several years of uncertainty while an exit treaty is negotiated with severe consequences for the commercial real estate market.  

Any market can withstand some short-term uncertainty of the type that we face over the next few months leading up to the vote. But there is no doubt in my mind that longer periods of uncertainty stall business decision making and history tells us that can only be bad news for the economy and bad news for property. When businesses stop making decisions, in property terms we see an immediate fall-off in occupier demand. With a demand shock we will move to oversupply of office space and rental values will fall. We saw it in 1990-92, 2002-03 and 2008-09, when demand levels dropped to 40%, 30% and 25% from the long-term average. But at least then business had visibility on its trading agreements.

It’s not just rental values that will be affected. Investment values will fall too, and we will be facing an immediate downturn that could be deeper and longer than those of recent history. Development starts will falter, if not grind to a halt, and there will be a knock-on effect on the construction industry, bringing pain to our industry and all it supports. 

How many construction businesses have contracted to provide projects priced in sterling? How will they fare if the value of sterling falls while they still have to pay their suppliers from around the EU and the rest of the world? Let’s hope they all have robust hedging arrangements.

The long-term impact of leaving the EU is unknown, but the near-term pain to our sector is all too clear to me. A vote to leave the UK is a vote for years of economic uncertainty, an immediate fall in occupier demand, a fall in commercial property values, and a real risk to current and future developments. 


Robert Noel is the chief executive of Land Securities

