
Counsellors who advise the recently divorced say the biggest challenge is in getting people to be honest about what they have to offer in a new relationship. Initially, men particularly expect to find a new partner as if they still in the full flush of youth. But they are no longer 25; they are more likely to be overweight, over 60 and overdrawn. Someone might find them attractive, but not a 25-year-old. Whatever the fantasy, they have to be made to face reality.

Someone needs to be equally frank with this country. Those in favour of leaving the European Union say it will leave us free to forge partnerships and trade deals with whomever we like. But pause for a moment and ask what is in it for the other side and how hard they might be to win over — however keen we are. It takes two to tango. 

Our manufacturing is not particularly strong, which is a problem because trade deals almost always focus on physical goods rather than services. About 12% of the UK economy is classed as manufacturing — a number similar to the 13% in the US and 11% in France — and some of it is very good. We are number two or three in the world in aerospace and pharmaceuticals.

But it is not enough. Management consultants McKinsey, in a study a few years ago, put British manufacturing into five categories to reflect its international competitiveness, or lack of it. The top and most secure sector had the innovative producers with a genuine technological edge — like the aforementioned aircraft and pharmaceuticals.Number two had strongly branded goods noted for “Britishness” like Land Rover, Burberry and Scotch whisky. The third, still successful, category was what McKinsey called locational producers, where the manufacturing had to be close to the market — food manufacturers being an obvious example. They are good, but not great exporters.

That is the end of the good news. The fourth and fifth categories are what it called exposed producers, which means those who make a living but are doing nothing special, and finally cost-based producers, which survive only because they are cheaper than anyone else.

The trade problem is we don’t have enough of the top stuff. McKinsey estimates that only 9% and 5% respectively of our manufacturing employment falls into the first two internationally competitive sector. So firms responsible for only 14% of manufacturing employment have what it takes to achieve significant export growth. 

In contrast, we excel in services. We pay our way in the world by the provision of financial and professional services — from insurance to architecture, higher education to health, management consultancy to English law. This is where we have our competitive edge. But trade deals never cover services because of their complexity. Indeed, the only place in the world that tries seriously to do so is the EU. 

The other big problem is that trade deals come with strings. Such a deal with the US would almost certainly mean we in Britain would have to accept American food safety standards because otherwise we would be discriminating against its products. Three quarters of the food on sale in the US today is said to contain genetically modified ingredients currently banned from the food chain in this country while its beef and pork contain growth hormones also banned in the EU because of the cancer risk. 

The other thing the US demands is that there are clear rules around the nationality of a product. To be covered by the deal, it has to be made locally. Thus the US-Vietnam deal says Vietnamese garment makers cannot export clothes whose yarn or fabric originally comes from China — even if the garment was designed, cut and stitched in Vietnam. Thus trade deals and rules of origin fly in the face of global supply chains on which much of UK business depends. 

In addition, the rules for each deal will be different, resulting in a compliance nightmare for companies. So bad is this in fact that a study of the impact of the Nafta deal between the US, Canada and Mexico found that two thirds of companies ignored it and continued to pay tariffs because compliance was such a nightmare.

These deals are also a threat to sovereignty — ironic given that regaining sovereignty is an oft-mentioned reason for leaving the EU. Under most trade deals, if big business feels it is being discriminated against, it can sue the government. Uruguay launched an anti-smoking campaign and was sued for $2 billion (£1.4 billion) by US tobacco giant Philip Morris because of potential lost sales. El Salvador banned a Canadian mining operation on environmental grounds and was sued by the company for the equivalent of a third of its annual education budget. Lawyers say there are hundreds of these cases round the world, mostly launched by US companies. 

But there is a different light to throw on this. German government statistics show that its biggest export market by far is the US, and its largest volume of imports come from China. In addition, four out of the top eight countries where it has a trade surplus are, in order, the US, South Korea, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. A fifth, the Netherlands, is probably the result of stuff being shipped on to other continents through Rotterdam. 

This demonstrates that you don’t need special deals to grow your trade with the rest of the world. But it also shows you don’t have to leave the EU to do so either. All you need to do is support your exporters properly and have enough good stuff that foreigners want to buy. Unfortunately, we don’t. That, not the EU, is our real problem.
