SP Setia’s RM4b sales target ‘overly aggressive’


PETALING JAYA:
 PublicInvest Research said that SP Setia Bhd’s RM4 billion sales target is “overly aggressive” although the developer was optimistic that it can achieve the target on the back of soft property demand and stricter lending policy. 

SP Setia plans to unveil in the next few months projects with a total gross development value (GDV) of RM4.8 billion consisting some 8,200 units.

“That said, we understand that its 10:90 home ownership scheme, which was introduced recently was well received. It plans to market more projects with the home ownership scheme going forward which could aid new sales,” it added.

 In FY15, SP Setia sold RM4.3 billion worth of properties with about RM1.4 billion from overseas. 

“In the 14-month FY15, it surpassed its FY15 sales target by a comfortable margin after securing new sales totaling RM4.3 billion with about 67% (about RM2.9 billion) of the new sales derived from the local market. The remaining is from international sales, of which RM1.2 billion came from Battersea Power Station, London,” said PublicInvest Research.

For FY16, it noted that there will be earnings contribution from Battersea Power Station and Parque in Melbourne, but majority of the earnings will only be recognised towards end of December.

Local sales are expected dominate the new sales as 98% of the total GDV of the planned new launches are from Malaysian projects.

Of the RM4.8 billion pipeline projects, the main launches will be driven by projects in the central region such as new phases in Setia Alam and Setia Ecohill 1 &amp; 2, as well as a new eco-themed township in Rawang namely Setia Eco Templer.

“Admittedly, new launches so far are quite small with two new phases in Setia Alam launched. However, it is confident that sales would regain momentum in 2H2016,” said PublicInvest Research.

It said that earnings visibility is good in the near term, with unbilled sales of some RM9.2 billion. It maintained its “outperform” call and RM3.85 target price on the stock. 

“All told, we still favour SP Setia for its sizeable and well located landbank, consistent performance, good earnings visibility and decent dividend yield.”






















Kuala Lumpur

