Farm sector hitch in FTA talks with New Zealand: Pranab


Seeking to dispel the impression that India was lukewarm about the ongoing negotiations with New Zealand on a Free Trade Agreement (FTA), President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday said the government was “not maintaining silence” on the issue, but was carefully considering the issues involved.



However, Mr. Mukherjee indicated that the differences were mainly in regard to agricultural products. “No, we are not maintaining silence. Ten rounds of discussions have taken place since 2010 on the FTA. Unfortunately, we have not been able to finalise an agreement.” 


He went on to add: “There are some problems about agricultural products. However, we have come a long way since the days when our agricultural sector required total protection,” the President said, answering questions from journalists on board his special aircraft on his way back from a five-day tour of Papua New Guinea and New Zealand. 


“I conveyed India’s willingness to work towards an early conclusion of an FTA keeping in mind the need to find a satisfactory resolution of our mutual concerns,” he said earlier in an initial statement to the media on board his special aircraft.



Though officials have so far been tight-lipped about what exactly was the factor behind the protracted negotiations, Mr. Mukherjee’s replies to queries threw some light on it after he was asked why India was “maintaining silence”, whereas New Zealand Prime Minister John Key was stressing on the early conclusion of a free trade pact with India.



He said India was the largest producer of liquid milk in the world. “The 300 million Indian middle class has developed an appetite for consumer goods and consumer durables. What was relevant in the 1960s and the 1970s, or even the 1980s, may not be relevant in 2016. The government is considering these aspects very carefully,” he said.



Citing a recent example of FTAs boosting trade, he said trade between India and Sri Lanka went up 20 times after the signing of a free trade agreement.



Expressing satisfaction over his visit to the two countries, in both cases, the first ever state visit by an Indian President, Mr. Mukherjee said it was aimed at taking forward India’s ‘Act East’ policy. “My visit has provided momentum to our foreign policy towards the Asia-Pacific region,” he said. He noted that even though diplomatic ties with New Zealand were established soon after independence, there had not been many visits. In the case of Papua New Guinea, no politician had visited the country in 40 years of diplomatic relations. Though geographically distant, these countries had come forward to support India’s “legitimate claim to permanent membership of the Security Council.”



He also spoke of the benefits accruing to India from expanding ties with New Zealand. “If we develop our cooperation in agriculture, in maintaining cold chain management, we can learn much and greatly benefit from their experience and expertise. 


Overall, he believed that India’s relations with the Asia-Pacific region would be expanded manifold and in many areas. He expressed the hope that the third summit of the Forum for India-Pacific Island Cooperation, to be held in Papua New Guinea, would have high level political representation. The centre of gravity in economic affairs in the world, he said, was shifting away from the G-8 countries, and even the European Union and North America, and was moving towards emerging economies. “These facts can't be ignored. The economic scenario is changing and we cannot be left behind.”’



Earlier, in his last engagement on the tour, Mr. Mukherjee addressed students and faculty members of the Auckland University of Technology. A memorandum of understanding on an ICCR Chair of Indian Studies in the University of Victoria was signed on the occasion. He left New Zealand in the forenoon of Monday by a special aircraft.

