

The European Union has said that it offered India the possibility of asymmetric and gradual elimination of tariffs in the car and car parts and wines and spirits sectors as part of the negotiations on the bilateral free trade agreement known as the BTIA (Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement). A continuing absence of agreement in these sectors has contributed to the lack of progress on the trade deal despite last month’s summit level talks between India and the EU.



“In terms of the car sector, in some cases, EU exporters face Indian import duties of up to 100 per cent on car and car parts,” Daniel Rosario, a European Commission spokesperson for trade told a delegation of journalists from India who are in Brussels as guests of the EU. “We suggested or agreed on long transitional periods for their elimination or even going as far as accepting an asymmetric elimination of these duties in favour of India.”



“The same goes for wines and spirits where our exporters face duties of up to 150 per cent and the proposal made in 2013 was for a gradual if not complete elimination of these duties, again taking into account Indian sensitivities,” Mr. Rosario said. 



High priority




High on India’s priority list has been access to European markets for Indian service professionals (such as from the IT sector). This however does not seem imminent. “The evaluation that we made of the Indian proposal was that, yes, it would be difficult to accommodate the way it was expressed,” Mr. Rosario said. India has also been keen to obtain ‘data secure’ nation status from the EU, a classification that is crucial for the development of its IT and ITES sectors in Europe.



“This is one of the topics where we would be willing to narrow down the gaps between the sides, when things move ahead, when things move ahead and our representatives are able to sit down together,” Mr. Rosario said.




Essential pillar




In response to a question on whether a free trade deal with the EU would hamper access to medicines and India’s generic drugs industry, Mr. Rosario said, “Access to medicines is an essential pillar of the EU’s policy on intellectual property and this is fully taken into the negotiations [sic] with India, and the trade agreement we want to establish with India will not undermine India’s right to produce generic medicines either for domestic or international purposes.”



Responding to speculation on whether ‘Brexit’, Britain’s June 23 referendum on EU membership or the EU’s negotiations with the United States on a transatlantic bilateral trade agreement, the TTIP, were holding back trade talks with India, Mr. Rosario denied that this was the case. “Well, we have a round of talks with the United States, and we had … a round of talks with Japan on a free trade agreement. Life continues,” Mr. Rosario said. “We are well aware of this process taking place in the United Kingdom but we continue to conduct our business as usual.”

