Why Jon Snow’s revival might be a bad decision for Game Of Thrones





Everyone has wildly debated for over 10 months whether Jon Snow will return to Game Of Thrones, but now he has, is it really the best decision for the show?


Rewind the clock back to pre-season five finale and you’ll be discussing the awesome scene as Daenerys finally climbs aboard a dragon, or Cersei’s harrowing demise as she walks through the streets of Kings Landing completely naked and pelted with abuse.

Basically, aside from being a show-cart for a few spectacular battles in Hardhome and season four’s The Watchers On The Wall, Jon Snow’s arc at the Night’s Watch was hardly at the centre of talking points – and was on occasion, pretty dull by comparison.

By Game Of Thrones standards, he’s hardly the most interesting hero character either. He doesn’t have the wit of Tyrion, he hasn’t been through the dramatic highs and lows of the Stark sisters, and is generally only mildly interesting because of the character’s around him, like Samwell Tarly or the now-deceased fiery wildling love-thing, Ygritte.

Of course, taking the coveted end-of-season cliffhanger slot meant it was always destined to cause a fuss, but it’s still surprising how many people actually cared about Jon Snow – swamping fan forums and populating discussions with the cast at every turn.

But now he’s ACTUALLY returned – what does this actually mean for the show going forward?

One concern is that it automatically cheapens death across the entire series. Game Of Thrones is renowned for its heart-stopping and unexpected deaths, whether it’s Ned Stark game-changing beheading or the events of The Red Wedding– these moments have come to define the series because they were such a definite and brutally shocking end to beloved characters.

Now the power of revival is at play – there’s always going to be questions hovering over every demise of whether there’s a mild slither of a chance they could return. Our initial shock will transform into questions over Melisandre’s whereabouts, and whether she’ll gallivant across the battlefield in time to do a swift makeshift haircut rebirth.

While it’s still speculation as to what will happen with Jon Snow’s character for the rest of season six, his death, while surprising, didn’t feel like it was completely unjust. His arch felt complete, with his close friends leaving the Night’s Watch and the threat of the Whitewalkers now fully apparent. His death also could have had wider, more tragic implications if the show follows the path of the much-rumoured R+L = J theory down the line.

While I’ll hold out hope for a more interesting, sinister Jon Snow whose character crumbles into a deathly ghost – the return of Jon Snow shouldn’t be the spectacular homecoming many have ballooned it up to be. In comparison to the brilliant, villainous twists with Ramsay Bolton and the rising tension between the Lannisters and the Sparrows, it’s currently a questionable footnote in a spectacular series.

Unless of course, he goes on a wild ragtag adventure with his trusted wolf, Ghost. I’ll happily get on board with that.

MORE: 
Game Of Thrones spoilers: This is what Kit Harington had to say about THAT twist in season six episode 2


MORE: 
What if Game Of Thrones characters took out life insurance?

