
Trying to get up to speed with London’s mayoral candidates in the run-up to the election next week? London Votes have got you covered.

The daily politics show has seen the likes of Conservative candidate Zac Goldsmith and Green Party hopeful Sian Berry enter the studio earlier this week, covering their plans for the position and discussion key issues. 

This time it’s the turn of Liberal Democrats candidate Caroline Pidgeon, who’ll be speaking to McAndrew on live TV.

Pidgeon has been outspoken about her plans to create more affordable housing in the capital, as well as campaigning for Britain to remain in the EU - but can the Liberal Democrats present themselves as an attractive prospect for London's future?

As well as the Lib Dems’ plans for London, plans to improve the environment will also be up for discussion, with air quality and pollution set to be key topics.

Eton-educated Zac Goldsmith entered the race for City Hall after balloting his Richmond Park constituents.
The son of late billionair Sir James Goldsmith, the Tory hopeful is an environmentalist who has campaigned against Heathrow airport expansion.
He also campaigned for the right for voters to kick out failing MPs and is now backing a British exit from the EU.

Ben Pruchnie/Getty Images

Sadiq Khan is the son of a London bus driver who grew up on a south London estate. 
He trained as a lawyer and worked as a human right solicitor before being elected MP for Tooting in 2005. 
Mr Khan was one of the first British Muslims to sit on the front bench of the Cabinet and ran Ed Miliband's campaign to become Labour leader.
He backs Britain's membership of the EU and has warned Brexit could have catastrophic consequences for London.

Sian Berry, Green party Mayoral candidate

Chris Ratcliffe/Getty Images

Caroline Pidgeon, Liberal Democrat candidate for the London Mayoral election

Glenn Copus

Peter Whittle, the UKIP London Mayoral candidate canvassing in Romford market

Glenn Copus

Respect party leader George Galloway

AFP/Getty Images

Paul Golding, Britain First

Rex

Mayoral candidate for the Women's Equality Party, Sophie Walker, outside City Hall

Matt Writtle

Cannabis advocate Lee Harris hopes to become mayor

Polish prince John Zynlinski is counting on London's migrant population to back him

Jeremy Selwyn

David Furness BNP Mayoral Candidate

BNP

Ankit Love. One Love Party

What does each party have in mind to make London a greener city to live in? Tune in to keep yourself informed ahead of the vote.


London Live, 6pm

