

UPDATE TWO
: The Nintendo NX release date has been set by the Japanese games giant for March 2017.

The news was released as part of Nintendo's earning report this morning.

Here a transcript from the 
official earnings release
: "For our dedicated video game platform business, Nintendo is currently developing a gaming platform codenamed “NX” with a brand-new concept. NX will be launched in March 2017 globally.

"For our dedicated video game platform business, Nintendo is currently developing a gaming platform codenamed “NX” which is a brand-new concept, and our unique software-led hardware-software integrated business will continue to constitute the core business for Nintendo.

"For the purpose of maximizing the population that interacts with Nintendo IP, we have entered into the smart device gaming business.

"We will aim to create a synergetic effect between the smart device business and Nintendo’s dedicated game system business to maximize the Nintendo businesses overall by growing our smart device business so that it is profitable on its own while continuously strengthening our connection with our consumers by enhancing features of our new membership service called My Nintendo.

"The dedicated video game hardware codenamed "NX" is scheduled for launch in March of 2017. Its estimated hardware and software sales units are reflected in the financial forecast ending March 31, 2017, however, we are not disclosing the specific information as it is provisional."

Other information included in the earnings release revealed that net income would likely rise to 35 billion yen, in the year ending March 2017, which could more than double income from the 2016 fiscal year.

However, Bloomberg reports that the forecast is below analysts’ projections of 44.1 billion yen, which were compiled by themselves.


UPDATE ONE
: A fresh online source claims that new information connected to the Nintendo NX will be released later this week.

The new rumours are worth taking with a big pinch of salt but state that an initial NDA will be lifted by the games giant to allow developers to confirm they are working on NX titles.

April 27 see a Nintendo Fiscal Year Earnings Release, the same source predicts that an official name for the NX project will be announced in connection with this.

Other reports have surfaced before this that claimed Nintendo would drop certain information about their new device before E3, and then use the LA expo to show off its full potential.

Macquarie Capital Securities in Japan revealed in January 2016 that they expect Nintendo to release the NX as two separate units, with a portable device arriving this year followed by a home console launch in 2017.

The same firm also predicted that the new devices would be accessible in some way through smartphones and PC, Nintendo have yet to comment on any of their plans for the NX as of yet.

There is hope that fans could learn something more about the mysterious console this week, Nintendo has set April 27 for its Fiscal Year Earnings Release, and events such as these have been known as a source of information in the past.


AMD's Q1 2016 earnings call
 appears to have revealed more on the subject of Nintendo’s next console launch, following mention of an estimated 15 percent revenue increase in Q2 2016.

It’s all connected to three semi-custom system-on-chip (SOC), which is set to be the main driver of this boost, and could bring in as much as $1.5 billion in revenue over the next three or four years.

These SOC “Wins” have been largely used in leading consoles in recent years, leading many to believe that one of those three listed could well be the 
Nintendo NX
.

Reports even suggest that AMD could be building two of these products for the Nintendo NX, both the portable device and home console.

The other SOC has been linked to the PS4 4K, Sony's upgraded console that is set to launch with an improved GPU, CPU and RAM.



The new earnings call also provides information on when these products could arrive, all will be launched by 2017 but one could even see the light of day in 2016.

Here’s what AMD's CEO Lisa Su had to say: "If you think about the semi-custom business in the past few years, the third quarter is always the peak. 

"It will be the peak this year, as well, but we're starting some of the ramping in the second quarter as we build to the stronger third quarter."

On the subject of who might have purchase these new products, Su replied: "I don't believe we've gone through any detail about what those wins are.

"I'd prefer to let that come out as our customers are ready to launch."

It follows the news that Nintendo are planning to provide an impressive lineup of launch game for the NX.

According to new reports, the games giant has been switching Wii U titles to the NX and have also undergone changes at the development level to make the company more efficient in releasing new games.

Apparently, Nintendo are hoping to provide the highest output of first party software they’ve ever accomplished for a console and are also looking build a more powerful system - which could see them swap IBM used for the Wii U for someone else.

Nintendo are also rumoured to be lining up some impressive third-party support, with leading publishers hoping to capitalise on a reopening market following the Wii U’s disappointing sales and second-screen support function. 
