

Writer Jayakanthan, who blazed a trail in modern Tamil literature, was also an avid film-maker, script and song writer. Now, the Indo-Russian Cultural Friendship Society has decided to release an album containing the songs of the late writer.



“I have already discussed the matter with music director Ilayaraja, who scored the music for the film 
Yethanai Konam Yethanai Paarvai
 . The album will be released after obtaining permission from others,” said P. Thangappan, general secretary of the society.



Besides Ilayaraja, music directors M.B. Sreenivasan, Veena Chittibabu and M.S. Viswanathan had worked for the films either directed or contributed to by Jayakanthan. Barring the title song of the film 
Yaarukkaka Azhuthan
 , which was written by Kannadasan, lyrics for all other films were penned by Jayakanthan. “It was while responding to a questionnaire in 
Ananda Vikatan
 , he expressed his desire to make and write for films. A group of his friends came forward to raise money and he completed the film 
Unnaipol Oruvan
 on a budget of Rs. 80,000,” said his friend Kuppusamy.



JK, as he was fondly called, developed a taste for film-making by watching world films and was a fan of playwright Tennessee Williams. He directed 
Unami Sudum
 and 
Yarukkaka Azhuthan
 . He also produced the film 
Puthucheruppu Katikkum
 jointly with a few friends. But it was never released and no copy is available.







“The song ‘Chithirappoo Selai’ in the film was penned by Jayakanthan. The inspiration came when we were bathing in the Cauvery in Thiruvaiyaru,” said Mr. Kuppusamy. Sung by S.P. B to the music of M.B. Sreenivasan, the song was laden with erotic lines. While his two novels 
Sila Nerangalil Sila Manitharkal
 and 
Oru Nadikai Natakam Paarkiral
 were made into films by Bhim Singh, Jayakanthan wrote the song ‘Thennam Keetru Oonjalile’ for the film 
Pathai Theriyuthu Paar
 , directed by Nimal Ghosh.



“Sove Export Films run by the Russian government bought the film 
Pathai Theiryuthu Paar
 ,” said Mr. Thangappan. The song 
Kandathai Solkiraen
 in the film 
Sila Nerankalil Sila Manitharkal
 in the music and voice of M.S.V became an all-time hit in the Tamil film world. Chittibabu was the music director of 
Unmai Sudum
 .

