   All roads led to Shilpakala Vedika on Thursday. You might be sniggering at that cliche but that was the reality, so much that choc-a-block traffic even got the performing artistes of the Times of India Lakshminarayana Global Music Festival a bit delayed. Nevertheless, once the music began all pressures of the outside world were laid to rest as  Dr L Subramaniam picked up his bow to play violin and conduct the amalgamation of the seven percussionists from across the country.    In the first half of the show, the women of the family took the stage. Bindu's Let there be love and peace... — a perfect balm for today's fractured world was followed by Kavita Krishnamurti's, who took to stage amid applause and prayed for musical avenues beyond movies in her life as she sang a  bhajan . However, she did perform her iconic film numbers — from  1941, a Love Story  and  Bombay . Then arrived the father and son duo (Dr L Subramaniam and Ambi), who performed in beautiful symphony a composition made to commemorate the 40 years of Indian Independence and performed at the United Nations, New York. But the audiences who were already in the trance had no idea what was going to come their way in the second half, following a small break. What followed next was a energetic second half that began with electrifying guitars for the track Time is right and then the highlight of the evening — the percussion symphony. "We are first going to try it on you and see your reaction and decide if we want to play it in other cities," quipped Dr Subramaniam, who walked up and down the stage at complete ease — as if the violin was a natural extension of his body and soul. Of course, the mesmerising symphony was received with loud applause — Hyderabad had not just liked it but loved it. The final piece had everyone from the Subramaniam family on stage — Kavita, Bindu, Ambi and even Dr Sumbramaniam's three-and-half-year-old granddaughter Mahati, who was welcomed on the stage with "awwwws" from the audience. As they sang, together and Subramaniam involved the percussionists on the stage in a playful  juglabandi , one could picturise an average day in the Subramaniam household being full of beautiful music and symphony. After taking out time to talk to his fans at the end of the show, Dr Subramaniam, elated by Hyderabad's response, says, "Yea, most people jokingly say we are the Subramaniam  gharana ." And Hyderabad sure loved being part of the family.       All roads led to Shilpakala Vedika on Thursday. You might be sniggering at that cliche but that was the reality, so much that choc-a-block traffic even got the performing artistes of the Times of India Lakshminarayana Global Music Festival a bit delayed. Nevertheless, once the music began all pressures of the outside world were laid to rest as  Dr L Subramaniam picked up his bow to play violin and conduct the amalgamation of the seven percussionists from across the country.    In the first half of the show, the women of the family took the stage. Bindu's Let there be love and peace... — a perfect balm for today's fractured world was followed by Kavita Krishnamurti's, who took to stage amid applause and prayed for musical avenues beyond movies in her life as she sang a  bhajan . However, she did perform her iconic film numbers — from  1941, a Love Story  and  Bombay . Then arrived the father and son duo (Dr L Subramaniam and Ambi), who performed in beautiful symphony a composition made to commemorate the 40 years of Indian Independence and performed at the United Nations, New York. But the audiences who were already in the trance had no idea what was going to come their way in the second half, following a small break. What followed next was a energetic second half that began with electrifying guitars for the track Time is right and then the highlight of the evening — the percussion symphony. "We are first going to try it on you and see your reaction and decide if we want to play it in other cities," quipped Dr Subramaniam, who walked up and down the stage at complete ease — as if the violin was a natural extension of his body and soul. Of course, the mesmerising symphony was received with loud applause — Hyderabad had not just liked it but loved it. The final piece had everyone from the Subramaniam family on stage — Kavita, Bindu, Ambi and even Dr Sumbramaniam's three-and-half-year-old granddaughter Mahati, who was welcomed on the stage with "awwwws" from the audience. As they sang, together and Subramaniam involved the percussionists on the stage in a playful  juglabandi , one could picturise an average day in the Subramaniam household being full of beautiful music and symphony. After taking out time to talk to his fans at the end of the show, Dr Subramaniam, elated by Hyderabad's response, says, "Yea, most people jokingly say we are the Subramaniam  gharana ." And Hyderabad sure loved being part of the family.    