Tom Hiddleston has been voted the most fashionable character on TV

They have both been proving their worth in the sartorial stakes on TV – but Tom Hiddleston might have just convinced film bosses that he’s the sharp-suited face they need for the next James Bond ahead of Idris Elba.

Hiddleston’s suave character Jonathan Pine from the recent BBC adaptation of The Night Manager has been voted the most stylish male character on TV – beating Elba’s no-nonsense cop John Luther which fell into second place.

In a survey commissioned by ITV’s Lorraine, Jeremy Piven’s eponymous character in Mr Selfridge came third, while Benedict Cumberbatch’s Sherlock took fourth place.

But it was bad news for Keith Lemon – who was voted the least stylist male celebrity from a list that also included Simon Cowell, Jeremy Clarkson and Chris Evans.

Giving her own sartorial advice, Lorraine Kelly said: ‘I think it’s far easier for men to get it right.

‘George Clooney always looks sharp and effortlessly stylish. Aidan Turner in Poldark has a very good look (both in character and in real life). Hugh Jackman looks as good in casual clothes out with his kids as he does on the red carpet in a perfect fitted suit.

‘I think one of the sexiest looks on a man is the kilt, but it has to be worn with walking boots, rolled down thick socks and a rugby top.’

The OnePoll survey of 2,000 women from across the UK revealed that 45% believed it was fairly or very important for their partner to look fashionable, while a quarter even admitted that they didn’t trust their man to clothes shop alone.

MORE: 
Why Jon Snow’s revival might be a bad decision for Game Of Thrones


MORE: 
Game Of Thrones fans could NOT handle that Jon Snow twist


The research was conducted ahead of Lorraine’s High Street Fashion Awards – which launches on May 3 with host Lorraine Kelly and a fashion panel of Georgia May Foote, stylist Mark Heyes and Fabulous magazine fashion editor Lynne McKenna.

Viewers can vote online before the awards on May 17.
