
The studio have revealed that Grand Theft Auto Online will be down for a long period tonight to make way for scheduled maintenance.

The outage will last around five hours and starts at 6am, UK time - it is currently unclear what the new downtime is being used for.

“
Grand Theft Auto Online
 We will be performing scheduled online service maintenance this Wednesday, April 27 starting at 1:00 AM EDT and lasting for approximately 5 hours,” a message from Rockstar reveals.

"During this time the Grand Theft Auto Online servers will be unavailable. Rockstargames.com and rockstargames.com/support will remain up but login will be down periodically.

"Please stay tuned to this page, which will be updated when the maintenance is finished. Apologies in advance for any inconvenience.

According to the official Rockstar Twitter support page, the last major maintenance period was in August 2015.

The maintenance period arrives in the middle of the High Life Week event, which offers double RP and in-game cash on certain modes until April 28.

“The relentless intensity of Inch By Inch climbs another two notches today, with brand new maps available to play right now in GTA Online," Rockstar explained in an earlier post. 

“You’ll be fighting tooth and nail amongst the muck and hay bales at the Grapeseed Cow Farm in Inch By Inch III, or setting up security checkpoints for low-flying bag carriers entering your end zone’s airspace at LSIA in Inch By Inch IV. 

“Both of the new maps feature in the Double GTA$ &amp; RP Playlist available to launch directly from GTAV boot screens all weekend until midnight on Sunday April 24th.”

“In addition to the Double GTA$ &amp; RP Playlist available today through Sunday, you'll also be able to play a rotating Double RP Playlist later in the week." 


The full schedule, as listed below:


You can also earn Double GTA Online RP playing any of the VIP Work or VIP Challenges, as well as the Contact Missions that were released as part of the High Life Update.
