Hollyoaks wedding and murder: 10 spoilers you need to know next week


Two of Hollyoaks’ most dangerous men are up to no good again – as Cameron leaves Ste for dead and Silas prepares to strike again, leaving Kim in potentially serious danger. 


It isn’t ALL about murder next week, though – there’s a wedding too! But anyone expecting a joyous occasion clearly isn’t familiar with how soap works – if Sienna Blake and Ben Richards enjoy a drama free day, then we will be amazed.


There’s a lot going on – so we have pulled together all of the big spoilers from the village for the week beginning Monday 9th May.


1.  Sienna’s big day arrives as she prepares to marry Ben – but we all know that her heart belongs to Trevor. As the object of her affections squares up to the groom, has the truth of the affair come out? And just what is scheming Nico up to?

2. Elsewhere, Harry is stunned when he discovers an engraving on the floor of the shack which claims that Cameron is a killer. As suspicions grow, Leela demands that Cameron calls Lockie…

3. Later, Ste discovers that Cameron has been lying about Lockie and hears from John Paul that Cameron offered a lift to Lockie on the day he went missing. Pulling together the evidence, Ste heads to the police.

4. Things come to a head as Cameron and Ste end up on a boat together. As talk turns to Lockie, Cameron gives away too much and a fight leads to Ste falling into the water. As he struggles, will Cameron save him or let him drown?

5. Marnie leads Tony into even more financial difficulty by suggesting that he gets in touch with a loan shark that she knows. After being manipulated by her, Tony makes a big mistake which could cost him everything…

6. As James assures Marnie that he will make sure that she gets the Hutch, Diane and Tony finally realise what’s been going on when their big night is sabotaged by Marnie, leaving them with no profit and a huge debt to pay back to the shark…

7. As Jade and Alfie continue to spend time together against Frankie and Jack’s wishes, things take an unsettling turn when Jade collapses – will the health scare finally give Frankie the leverage to stop Alfie from seeing her as she continues her recovery?

8. After Myra tells John Paul that he can do better than Scott, he is awkward while out with him and Scott is gutted to see that JP is embarrassed to be with him. When John Paul confides Myra’s advice in Sally, she is left fuming.

9. Later, after Sally is invited to a family lunch, Myra can’t help but have a pop and as the pair argue about their shared secret, someone overhears and discovers Sally’s connection to John Paul…

10. Finally, Kim continues to investigate Lindsey’s whereabouts and is contacted by a man who claims to have information on the Gloved Hand Killer. Agreeing to meet him, Kim soon comes face to face with Silas…





