A stage for Manch



HYDERABAD:
 It is play time at Lamakaan as Manch Theatre group gets ready to stage their play 
Navvulu Muvvalu 2
. The first part was staged a few months ago and the response encouraged the artistes to do a sequel. The production included two plays: 
Panakaala Panimanishi
, which brought out the woes of finding domestic helps and 
Baboi Ee Talli Tandurulu Maaku Vaddu
 told from a youngster’s point of view. The laughs were guaranteed and the ‘Manchurians’ played their parts. Wondering who the Manchurians are? They are software professionals and members of Manch, an in-house theatre group of Infosys who pursue theatre for the love of stage. 



How it started




At the Infosys campus in Gachibowli and Pocharam, ‘Manchurians’ are quite popular. It was 12 years ago when employees, passionate about stage, began a theatre club in the office (Alternatively they have dancing and singing clubs.) “Initially it was restricted to short acts and skits and was performed in front of a small set of people. The performances were appreciated and the scale became bigger,” points out Ankur Verma. He is accompanied by his colleagues Sanket Lade, Shailaja and Rupa as they map Manch’s journey from 2004. 


“The love for storytelling and passion for theatre distinguishes ‘us’ Manchurians,” says Srikanth Banala. In the formative years, Manch was an amateur zone. The artistes took inspiration from other productions to stage plays. “It has been four years since we started doing original plays. Be it from already existing stories or original themes, we bring out a new perspective and that is our ‘Manch Ka Punch’,” says a beaming Roopa. With a think tank of stories, an email connects the theatre aficionados. “Every once or twice in a month, we conduct auditions and send out invitations to all the people across our Development Centre. Who ever fits in our requirement joins us,” states Ankur and adds, “The core and extended core team scrutinises and selects the theme and sometimes the HR gives the theme especially during special days. A choice is given for interested people to take up direction.” It was during one such instance that Rupa got an opportunity to be a director. “I only had the experience of directing college plays. During one of the competitions, there were availability issues. I thought I will take up the role of a boy in the play but I ended up directing it,” she recalls. Shailaja shares how the club helped her revive the love for theatre. “I used to do theatre in graduation and I gave it up due to MBA. We were told about the clubs during our induction and I chose theatre,” she says. 


If there are around 60 members in Manch, the logistics, props and other paraphernalia is provided by the company. From serious and comedy to mime and monologues…. the group has tried different genres in Hindi, Telugu and English. Besides the office premises, Manch team regularly stages plays at Lamakaan, have participated in a few competitions and were finalists in the Sumadhura state level competition held in Vijayawada. Some of their varied themes were: ‘Road Safety’, ‘Women Empowerment’, ‘We are theatre!’ and ‘Kya hum azaad hain?’



How do they balance work and theatre? “Sometimes we miss our lunch and have extended days. The office provides environment and flexible timings,” informs Sankalp. Ankur adds how availability of actors becomes an issue. “Employees have meetings, calls and targets to achieve. People are passionate but everyone gets busy and our main priority is our work.” The encouragement they receive is like a tonic to better their performance every time they stage a play. “The audience expects us tocome up with new acts and we cannot afford to be laidback,” affirms Sankalp. What began as a hobby has now grown into a full-fledged avocation for these professionals. They hope to keep this love for theatre blooming. 


Kudos to that.






Manch Ka Punch






A platform to express.



It helps one be a different person on stage



Keeps one creatively active 


No one is born with a broad mind. One develops it. Theatre helps to look into others’ perspective 


One becomes more expressive, confident and can communicate better



Meet likeminded people 


Stress buster 


One gets to see a different side of the co-worker 




The love for storytelling and passion for theatre distinguishes ‘us’ Manchurians



