
Fans are excited at the opportunity of seeing Fillon’s space cowboy Captain Malcolm Reynolds back in action.

The dashing leading man from Joss Whedon’s Firefly is a tantalising prospect as a rival to the very similar swashbuckling space cowboy Star Lord, played by Chris Pratt in the Guardians of the Galaxy films.  

Confirmation of Nathan Fillion’s involvement in the Guardians sequel surfaced after 
unofficial photos from the set leaked online.


The snaps show posters on the wall of a movie theatre here on Earth. Fillion’s face is on most of them as the actor Simon Williams who fans know as the alter ego of Wonder Man from the original Avengers comics.

Not only this, but the cinema they are plastered on has a huge sign announcing a film festival dedicated to the fictional screen legend.

Fans predictably went absolutely crazy at this superhero news. 

"AAAAHHH NATHAN FILLION IN GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY 2? Is it obvious I'm excited for this?" wrote one obviously excited fan. 

AAAAHHH NATHAN FILLION IN GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY 2????!!!!!!

Is it obvious I'm excited for this?



Nathan Fillion in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 as Wonder Man. Take. My. Money.

"Nathan Fillion in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 as Wonder Man. Take. My. Money," added another.

Eagle-eyed fans have also noticed that there is a poster for a film biopic of Tony Stark among the new leaked images. 

No doubt this will be as pleasing to Tony Stark as to Robert Downey Jr, himself, who was recently outed by his co-stars for 
having five trailers on the set of Captain America: Civil War.


The question for fans now is whether the pictures of Fillion are just another classic Marvel Easter Egg or not?

Are they just a playful nod to another fan favourite show and star or are they introducing Fillion as a new character in the Guardians franchise?

After all, Fillion has already been heard in the first Guardians movie voicing a blue-skinned monster in the prison scene with Chris Pratt’s Star Lord.

Fans are now hoping that the unofficial photos confirm the introduction of Nathan Fillion as Wonder Man/Williams into the Marvel Cinematic Universe.

A name that most hardcore fans will know that name from the comics, Williams is a former baddie who left the Masters of Evil and his villainous brother the Grim Reaper. 

Williams switched sides and joined the Avengers as Wonder Man, before retiring from the superhero team to become an actor. 

Apart from being a talent thespian, Wonder Man has a whole host of abilities from flight and invulnerability to superhuman strength and speed. 



Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 2 is scheduled for release in UK cinemas April 28, 2017.


