

COLUMN |
 
FOLLOW JAMES OLLEY ON TWITTER


The suggestion that an 18-year-old with one senior appearance to his name is demanding £50,000-a-week to sign a new contract with 
Chelsea
 appears at first glance to be emblematic of everything that is wrong with modern football.

Dominic Solanke’s Chelsea career totals 17 minutes as a substitute against NK Maribor in October 2014. 

His current deal, worth £7,000-a-week, expires next summer but after scoring seven goals in 24 games on loan at Vitesse Arnhem, Solanke’s representatives are seeking a massive pay-hike amid fears he will join a long list of promising young talents overlooked for first-team opportunities at Stamford Bridge.

Solanke is considered a hugely promising talent but how can he possibly be worth £50,000-a-week? After all, that figure is the same Harry Kane earns at Tottenham and £20,000 more than Christian Eriksen earns at White Hart Lane. Marcus Rashford’s breakthrough for Manchester United – incidentally at the same age - landed him a contract worth £10,000-a-week. Anthony Martial – the world’s most expensive teenager – earns £65,000-a-week.

But those comparisons are only partially relevant. Ruben Loftus-Cheek signed a new Chelsea deal in February worth a maximum £60,000-a-week despite only starting six games for the club. Back in 2013, Nathaniel Chalobah agreed a £35,000-a-week deal after a successful loan spell at Watford but had never even made his debut.

Andreas Christensen has denied reports he earns in excess of £20,000-a-week but it would be in keeping with the vast sums Chelsea have thrown at young players in the past to keep them at the club.

Solanke is therefore only asking for what constitutes the top end of the club’s going rate. Salaries are always reflective of what you can leverage rather than what you are worth and Solanke is in a good position to negotiate given the regard in which he is held. 

Chelsea have put themselves in a difficult position by creating the precedent that potential – and not just performance – is rewarded with a big payday.


With Chelsea's Academy stars retaining the UEFA Youth League, who will follow Ruben Loftus-Cheek's footsteps into the first team?

Philipp Schmidli/Getty Images

Has to be taken seriously given that captain John Terry, Chelsea’s only genuine graduate from the youth system to become a regular in the past 20 years, has tipped the defender to emulate him.

Like Terry, Clarke-Salter likes to lead by example from the back, making challenges and giving instructions to his team-mates. 
Made his professional debut at Aston Villa earlier this month.

Matthew Lewis/Getty Images

A physical and fast full-back who caught the attention of former manager Jose Mourinho and played on the pre-season tour last summer.

Aina has been at the club since he joined the Under-11s and if he stays at the Bridge could make the grade but there are doubts over his long-term future.
His contract runs out at the end of the season and Arsenal and Liverpool hope to capitalise.

Julian Finney/Getty Images

A fine towering striker who can lead the line with aplomb and find the net on a regular basis.

After scoring an incredible 41 goals for the Under-18s, 19s and 21s last term, Abraham has followed it up with another 25 in the campaign  so far.

Such is his progress, he is being considered for a run-out in the senior side before the end of the season.

Rex

The scorer of the winning goal against PSG, which is no surprise as he is a constant threat from midfield.

Palmer’s cool finish was his 16th of the season and like club legend Frank Lampard, can score from inside and outside the box.

One concern among his coaches though is his tendency to go missing for long periods during matches.

Philipp Schmidli/Getty Images

 




