

COLUMN |
 
FOLLOW JAMES OLLEY ON TWITTER



Dele Alli
 has made himself a marked man at 
Euro 2016
. England’s opponents will already have taken note of a remarkable breakthrough season in which he has effortlessly transposed his influential displays for MK Dons in League One onto the pressurised stage of a Premier League title race.

He was rightly voted PFA Young Player of the Year on Sunday evening in recognition of his ascent but 24 hours later he provided a reminder of a weakness other teams will look to exploit from now on.

Alli was subjected to provocation throughout Tottenham’s draw with West Brom but there can be no excuse for the manner in which he struck out at Baggies defender Craig Dawson midway through the first half.

That punch to Dawson’s midsection will surely be the knockout blow which ends Alli’s domestic season once the FA’s retrospective action grinds into motion. He will have plenty of time to ponder a trait that has existed for some time.

There is a fine line between a young player having the swagger to thrive in elite football and the sort of indiscretion which can have a hugely damaging effect on his teammates. In January, Alli turned a match against Crystal Palace in Tottenham’s favour with a goal of sufficient majesty to overshadow Alan Pardew’s accusation that the midfielder stamped on Yohan Cabaye earlier in the game.

Less than a month later, Alli was fortunate not to be sent off for kicking out at Nenad Tomovic during Spurs’ Europa League last 32, first leg against Fiorentina. After that game, Alli claimed that he would not change his character, adding: “Do you need an aggressive streak to thrive? You could say that. A lot of the great players have that mentality. I want to be the best I can and if that’s what I need to do it, that’s what I do.”

The best players do indeed often harbour a mean streak prone to indiscipline but rarely does their temperament get the better of them when it matters most. 

Alli’s presence alongside several other young talents enjoying a fine domestic season has engendered cautious optimism that England have a chance of making serious inroads in France this summer but they will need all 11 players on the pitch performing to their absolute maximum.

“Our players will have it drummed into them that they must keep their cool, don’t lose your temper, don’t run the risk that they are going to upset you and get you sent off,” England boss Roy Hodgson said last week. “We tell them all those things. But what if it happens? People make it sound so simple that all you have to do is tell them…but then it still happens.”

As Dele Alli turns 20, we look back at the defining moments of his short career so far...

Alli impressed in the MK Dons' shock 4-0 Capital One Cup victory over Manchester United in August 2014 - a performance the midfielder credits with helping him to get 'noticed' by bigger clubs.

The youngster had been bought by Tottenham in January 2015 and loaned back to MK Dons for their promotion push, and Alli's 16 goals in 39 appearances contributed to the Dons' successful campaign as they won promotion to the Championship.

2015 Getty Images

Alli made a quiet start to life at Spurs as a second-half substitute during their 1-0 defeat at Man United on the opening day of the 2015-16 Premier League season back in August, though a booking in his 14-minute cameo hinted at his tempestuous nature.

2015 Getty Images

Alli got the ball rolling early on in his Spurs career with his first top-flight goal in his next game, equalising against Leicester at the King Power Stadium on August 22.

2015 Getty Images

Alli showed his maturity coming from playing cameo roles earlier in the campaign to playing an integral role against Arsenal in the north London derby in November, earning the man of the match award for a composed display ahead of his first full England international call-up.

Robin Jones

The midfielder had a dream performance against France at Wembley, scoring a wonder strike from 25 yards. Not many people would attempt that kind of effort on their international debut, let alone an England player.

Getty

Alli has gone from strength to strength in front of goal, showing the confidence and desire to interchange with lead striker Harry Kane to break into goal-scoring positions. Fine volleys against West Brom and Everton saw him become one of England's most talked-about youngsters.

But Alli arguably saved the best for Selhurst Park in January - his sublime turn-and-volley astonished Crystal Palace supporters, sent social media into meltdown and immediately made him a candidate for goal of the season.

2016 Getty Images

Alli was the key man for England as they came back from a 2-0 deficit to beat world champions Germany 3-2 in their own back yard in March. A cheeky nutmeg of Emre Can and an all-round midfield display left Manuel Neuer 'very impressed,' though an open-goal miss at the death proved he is human after all.

Mike Hewitt/Getty Images

Tottenham faced a nervy encounter against Man United on April 10, with anything but a win surely sending the title Leicester's way. Alli struck in the second half to open the floodgates and crush United 3-0 to keep Spurs' title hopes on track, proving that he is developing and can handle pressure at the top level.

On April 25, however, Alli was involved in an altercation with West Brom's Claudio Yacob that left the England international facing an FA charge for violent conduct,

BEN STANSALL/AFP/Getty Images

England captain Wayne Rooney can provide valuable insight. Alli is not under the same spotlight Rooney was as a 20-year-old but he will certainly be part of Hodgson’s 23-man squad and is highly likely to start England’s first game against Russia on 11 June.

Rooney was expected to take the 2006 World Cup by storm but instead he was sent off as England crashed out in the quarter-finals after provocation from, of all people, his then Manchester United team-mate Cristiano Ronaldo. Alli will be targeted in just the same way and must handle it better.




