

PARIS
: France's sports minister Patrick Kanner on Wednesday announced that a total of €24 million (RM106 million) will be provided to help with security at Euro 2016 fan zones.

The fan zones are expected to attract between seven and eight million supporters in the 10 host cities across France, which will host the European Championship between June 10 and July 10.

Kanner told France's National Assembly that an agreement to provide financing was signed in Paris on Wednesday morning in the presence of Alain Juppe, the former French Prime Minister who is now president of the host cities, and organising committee head Jacques Lambert.

The sports minister said that the initial budget to provide security in fan zones was "€10 to €12 million" but had been increased to €24 million.

He added that an agreement had been reached between the host cities, the French government and UEFA to finance the extra cost.

Fan zones have become a regular feature at major sporting competitions in recent years but security is of foremost concern to authorities in France at a time when the terror threat is high.

France has been on high alert since 130 people were killed and many more were injured during the November 13 terror attacks in and around Paris.

The attacks included three suicide bombers blowing themselves up outside the Stade de France during a friendly international between France and Germany.

In Saint-Denis, to the north of Paris and which will host the final at the Stade de France, the fan zone will be able to welcome up to 100,000 supporters and will be staffed by up to 100 security agents while video surveillance will also be used, it was announced recently.

Kanner added that "everything will be done" to provide sufficient security.

He also said that "exceptional measures" will be taken by the state in terms of policing, while 10,000 members of the military will provide support to ensure security "never before seen for a sporting event in our country." — 
AFP























Kuala Lumpur

