
Yet the words daubed upon it, bold and in white, could not have been more fitting: "We climbed the hill in our own way."

The families and loved ones of the 96 supporters who died at Hillsborough have reached the summit. This was their day.

A day for justice. A day when, after 27 long years of relentless pursuit, the truth finally came out. A momentous day when Liverpool, the supporters, the club, the city, claimed its most important victory.

Outside the purpose-built courtroom on Birchwood Park, the families lined up, united still, and chorused 'You'll Never Walk One', each man and woman, brother and sister, friend or family member, firmly grasping the hand of the person next to them.

This was a show of force by a group finally freed from the shackles of innuendo, the web of lies and deceit they knew had been blocking their path ever since Britain's worst-ever sporting tragedy unfolded, desperately, at the FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest in 1989.

Inside, shortly after 11am, they had collectively held their breath in anticipation of the verdicts.

There had been screams of euphoria, fists shaken in an emotional out-pouring and tears when a jury at the inquests into the disaster determined that those fans who perished had been unlawfully killed.

Yet it was the seventh question of the 14 asked of the jury of seven woman and two men which held most resonance in their eyes.

Nerves, anxiety and tension were palpable as Lord Justice Goldring asked the nine-strong panel whether the behaviour of the supporters on the day may have contributed to the harrowing events. The threshold - "may have contributed" - felt low. The response of the foreperson was emphatic. "No," she offered.

And there, in a split second, was vindication.

There were more tears, more screams, more applause. A happy type of uproar and, of course, relief.

"If I'd got the verdict unlawful killing and any of our fans had been blamed I would've told them to shove that verdict," said Margaret Aspinall, chairman of the Hillsborough Family Support Group and whose son James, 18, was among those who lost their life.

The extent of the attempted cover up by South Yorkshire Police, their squalid negligence before and after events on April 15 1989 which could now lead to criminal proceedings, and the failings of the establishment make this tragedy a national scandal.

However, it is the scale of the impact on the families which remains incomprehensible.

It becomes a little clearer to anyone who has attended the Hillsborough Memorial Service and listens to how long it takes to read out the names of the 96. Seven minutes and 24 seconds.

Yet it is the extent of the personal sacrifices that the families of those killed have undertaken for almost three decades that is unimaginable.

It is impossible to think of what they have been through and the level of responsibility they have carried in the intervening years when withstanding the pain of having those who died denigrated and smeared, wrongly depicted as drunken yobs.

Consider all the doors that were routinely slammed in their faces and the setbacks they endured.

From the original accidental death inquest verdict in March 1991 and the challenge to that dismissed by the High Court in April 1992.

To the hope brought by a judicial review in 1997 and the bitter disappointment when it was decided the case warranted no further action.

Think of all the things you have walked away from in your own life because it is easier to do that than fight on, because confronting the challenge takes determination and demands time and effort.

Now think of the courage the families mustered when many questioned why they continued to challenge the powers-that-be and the sniping that they were whingeing Scousers.

They were far from that.

Instead, they refused to accept a version of events they knew had been horribly twisted, fighting for themselves and their city, and in doing so forced people to listen.

They forced the country to listen.

For that we owe them a debt of gratitude today.

Their life's work has been about making people accountable and shining a light on those who sought to escape the spotlight.

It is a story of struggle which, Bishop James Jones who headed the Hillsborough Independent Panel said recently, demonstrates a passion that will resonate through the ages.

The landmark conclusions were streamed live to those who had gathered at St George's Hall in the heart of Liverpool city centre and two small, but powerful, words -truth and justice - were displayed outside the historic building.

On Tuesday, at 6pm, a vigil for the 96 will be held there.

"People say we've been on a long journey," said Margaret Aspinall outside the court, finally free to speak her mind after two years in which the longest legal case in English history meant she has tried to bite her lip.

"I don't look on it as a long journey, I look on that as going on holiday.

"But we've been on some very bumpy roads, we've been climbing up mountains and never reached the top. We've got to the peak now lads!

"Every one of us has got to the peak of that mountain and got what we rightfully deserved. I knew in the end we will overcome them, they will not rule us."

The words of the banner, held by Jim Sharman from Red and White Kop, outside the courtroom were taken from Pink Floyd's song "Fearless".

If there is one word to describe the families it would be that.

It is their fearlessness which ensures the legacy of the 96 lives on.
