

Chelsea
 are on the verge of signing Roma’s 
Radja Nainggolan
 in a £31million deal.


Standard Sport
 
revealed last month that Nainggolan was discussing a potential move to Stamford Bridge
, but talks have moved on a stage this week to secure the Belgium midfielder.

Nainggolan still has four years left on his contract at Roma, which is worth around £48,000-a-week. 

The Italy manager has been appointed as Chelsea's new manager after Euro 2016, signing a three-year contract worth £14.3m after tax. But which players will the 46-year-old look to bring in? Scroll through Standard Sport's gallery to find out more about Conte's potential transfer targets.

Getty

Chelsea are closing in on Roma’s Belgian star in a £31million deal. Standard Sport revealed in March that Nainggolan was discussing a potential move to Stamford Bridge, but talks have moved on a stage this week to secure the Belgium midfielder.

Getty

The Juventus defender hugely admired by Conte, who he coached at Juventus between 2011-14 and has coached him for the past two years in the national team

Marco Luzzani/Getty Images

The Inter Milan captain, still only 23, would be the younger striking option that Conte could favour alongside a more experienced man up front. Despite snubbing a move away from the Nerazzurri and signing a new deal at Inter last summer, the former Chelsea target could be encouraged to come to England with the prospect of a salary increase especially as Inter are struggling to secure Champions League football for next season.

Tullio M. Puglia/Getty Images

The France international has been on the radar of Europe's top clubs for some time now, but rejected a move away from Juventus last summer after saying it wasn't the right time to depart. Only a big money move would tempt Juve to part with their prized asset and if Chelsea do not secure Champions League football for next season, a transfer for Pogba would prove difficult. 

Getty

The Roma midfielder, famed for his fine free kicks similar to Chelsea's Willian, has been linked with a move to Stamford Bridge in the Italian press and indeed got the rumour mill going after favouriting a tweet containing a link to an article about why he would be perfect at Chelsea. Still only 25, Pjanic has time to develop although his time in Italy has proved he has already blossomed into a fine playmaker - the likes of which Chelsea will be keen on signing. 

GETTY

The Uruguay striker could be the experienced forward Conte is looking for, and will also be a viable option as PSG are thought to be ready to listen to offers for the 29-year-old. Cavani would arrive to Chelsea in good form too - he's scored 17 goals in all competitions this season, including the winning strike against Chelsea in the Champions League last-16 first-leg in February. 

FRANCK FIFE/AFP/Getty Images

However, Chelsea are prepared to offer a five-year deal and a significant pay-rise which will see him at least match the £70,000-a-week Nemanja Matic receives. It is understood that the financial terms Chelsea are offering, as well as the chance to  play for new manager Antonio  Conte, will be hard for Nainggolan to refuse.

Chelsea want to learn from their mistakes of last summer and are determined to get their close season deals done much earlier — preferably before Euro 2016 gets underway, so as to avoid increased competition should a player impress and spark a rise in their value.

Roma have virtually secured their place in the next season’s Champions League next term and the club’s director of football, Walter Sabbatini, claims Chelsea still face a fight to buy Nainggolan, who turns 28 next week. Asked if he was aware of Conte’s interest in Nainggolan, Sabbatini said: “I don’t know, I’ve never spoken to Conte. Nainggolan is a universal midfielder, so strong in every area of the game that he is wanted by many clubs.”

Chelsea may have a harder task in convincing Roma to part with another of their prized assets, Miralem Pjanic.


Chelsea
 will make a summer move for 
Borussia Dortmund
 star 
Henrikh Mkhitaryan
, according to the 


Mirror


. 

CHRISTOF STACHE/AFP/Getty Images


Arsenal
 will look to capitalise on 
Chelsea’s
 contract stalemate with starlet 
Dominic Solanke
 and prise him from Stamford Bridge, according to 


 The Sun


.

Elsa/Getty Images


Bayern Munich
 are lining up summer move for 
Arsenal’s Alexis Sanchez
, according to the 


 Mirror


.

GLYN KIRK/AFP/Getty Images


John Stones
 goes to the Etihad to watch 
Real Madrid
 match as 
Manchester City
 move draws closer, according to 


 The Sun

 


Alex Livesey/Getty Images


Cristiano Ronaldo
 has agreed a deal to join 
PSG
, according to 
 

 Mundo Deportivo 


.

Alex Grimm/Bongarts/Getty Images

The highly-rated Bosnia international has yet to sign an extension on his contract, which expires in 2018, and Chelsea are considering making a £30m bid. But Sabbatini insists Roma do not want to lose the creative midifelder, adding: “He is 26 and has Roma on his shoulders.”

Chelsea Under-18s will be attempting to clinch their fifth FA Youth Cup in seven years at Stamford Bridge this evening. They drew the first leg against Manchester City 1-1 last Friday.
