Leicester are Premier League champions as Tottenham title hopes collapse at Chelsea


Leicester City
 are the new 
Premier League
 champions after 
Tottenham
 drew with 
Chelsea
 2-2 at Stamford Bridge on Monday night.

Claudio Ranieri's side have completed one of the most extraordinary feats in modern team sports in lifting the title just one season after they narrowly avoided relegation to the Championship.

Leicester travelled to Manchester United on Sunday needing three points from their three remaining games to beat second-placed Tottenham to the trophy.

After Anthony Martial opened the scoring for Louis van Gaal's side, Wes Morgan earned the Foxes a 
1-1 draw
 at Old Trafford to pile the pressure on Tottenham, who went into their London derby with Chelsea a day later knowing they must win to keep their title hopes alive. 

And Spurs were well on their way to denying Leicester their first-ever title on Monday after Harry Kane and Heung-min Son scored, but after Gary Cahill fired in shortly after the break, momentum shifted towards the hosts.

Eden Hazard was brought on at the break and went on to prove the difference - scoring in the 83rd minute to secure a 2-2 draw for Chelsea and ensure Leicester were crowned champions.

Leicester City. Champions of England. 
pic.twitter.com/WRwfysTn2N


The Foxes have now secured the title with 22 wins from 36 games, 11 draws times and just three losses.

Who shone at the Bridge in a feisty derby?

Continued in goal with Courtois still out suspended, and despite conceding twice, will feel he put in a good shift although he perhaps could have done more to pressurise Kane before his goal.

Began the match well, getting forward and helping out with attacks while defending solidly too. But he disappointed when he sloppily gave away the ball which led to Son scoring Spurs' second.

Returned from illness to enjoy a superb game at the heart of Chelsea's defence. The defender missed an early chance to score but made up for it when he netted in the 57th minute to get Chelsea back in the game. 

After being out for a lengthy amount of time with injury, the Chelsea captain returned to action a little sluggish, being caught out for both of Tottenham's goals. 

Alex Morton/Getty Images

Endured a few nervy moments up against the pace of Son and Walker when the pair went forwards, but he used his own pace to help his teammates out in defence in other instances.

Put in a hardworking shift, but his lack of pace showed at times.

Started off well, but disappointed when he did not prevent Eriksen from setting up Son for Spurs' second. 

Was a nuisance for Tottenham's defence and could have scored but blasted a chance well wide in the first half. Triggered off the melee just before the break when he squared up to Rose but this was another hard-working showing from the Brazilian.

Bryn Lennon/Getty Images

Started in the No.10 role with Eden Hazard being dropped to the bench, and proved dangerous up front. Missed a great chance to get on the scoresheet but instead tamely drove Costa's pass wide. Still, a good game from the Spaniard.

His pace gave Walker much work to deal with, but ultimately he didn't have the impact Hiddink would have wanted him to have. Replaced by Hazard at the break. 

Was sharp, patient and aggressive in his play and turned Spurs' defence inside out at times - providing the assist for Hazard's equaliser. Booked for clashing with Vertonghen. 

Proved the difference after coming on for Pedro and scoring the all-important equaliser that ended Tottenham's hopes of winning the title.  

The Tottenham captain was never truly tested, with many of Chelsea's efforts coming from outside the box, and he couldn't do too much about Cahill's powerful effort that flew through a crowded penalty box.

Impressed when going forwards as he set up several chances from his position on the right flank, although he struggled at times to deal with Pedro's pace in the first half - which earned him a booking. He could also have had one earlier for a petulant kick on the Spaniard. Made a crucial last-ditch clearance to deny Chelsea. 

Worked well alongside Vertonghen to frustrate Costa, but his low points came when he first allowed Cahill to run free and score Chelsea's opener before failing to prevent Oscar from setting up Hazard for the equaliser.

Tread a fine line for much of the game with some of his defending, although it did earn him a yellow for pulling Costa's shirt. Initially kept Costa at bay but lost his head as the game wore on.

Like Walker, did well going forwards when Spurs attacked but did get caught out at times. Booked for a rash foul on Willian, which triggered off a touchline fight.

Lucky to go unpunished after being seen appearing to eye-gouge Costa during the touchline fracas, but did well to link up defence with attack. However, he let himself down by failing to stop Hazard from running clear and equalising.

Started the game despite suffering concussion in Spurs' 1-1 draw with West Brom last week, and his inclusion paid off - with the midfielder starting the move that led to Kane's opener. However, he will feel disappointed not to have marked Cahill closer in the build-up to Chelsea's goal.

Replaced the suspended Dele Alli and, despite wasting an early chance when he shot wide - much to Pochettino's anger on the touchline - he scored Tottenham's second in fine fashion. Brought off for Mason after 64 minutes.

Was involved in the build-up to Kane's goal, and popped up in spaces throughout the game to help in attack.

This was another game in which the Argentine showed just why he has become such an important member of Tottenham's team. He was heavily involved in much of Spurs' play and was rewarded when he delivered the pass that Kane scored. Booked.

Scored his 25th league goal in fine fashion after timing his run to perfection and dribbling past Begovic to hand Spurs the lead and was then involved in the second goal. Another impressive performance from the striker.

Leicester had survived the drop last season by just six points after winning seven of their last nine games, and earning 41 points in total after losing 19 games - half their fixtures.




