Chelsea vs Tottenham: Mousa Dembele appears to eye-gouge Diego Costa as Mauricio Pochettino breaks up touchline fight


Mousa Dembele
 escaped punishment for appearing to eye-gouge 
Diego Costa
 as 
Mauricio Pochettino
 was forced to break up a touchline fight between 
Tottenham
 and 
Chelsea
 players during the London derby at Stamford Bridge.

With Spurs leading the clash on Monday night 2-0 following Harry Kane and Heung-min Son's first-half goals, Danny Rose's foul on Willian just in front of the technical area resulted in the Chelsea forward reacting angrily.

Willian squared up to the Tottenham defender, which forced Pochettino to intervene by attempting to physically separate the pair.

With players from both teams getting involved, the Argentine ended up becoming caught up in the melee before Dembele was seen appearing to scatch the face of Diego Costa nearby.

Eden Hazard scored a glorious equaliser to potentially end Spurs' title hopes.

Harry Kane celebrates his opener for Chelsea.

Cesar Azpilicueta fights for the ball during a feisty first half.

The Chelsea fans let their feelings be known despite a disappointing season.

Two police officers watch on ahead of the London derby.

A reminder in the merchandise that Chelsea have a strong future after much success from their youth stars this term.

Chelsea skipper John Terry returned to the starting XI.

But Terry will have a job to stop Spurs' star man Harry Kane.

It seems some Chelsea fans have an ulterior motive tonight...

Mauricio Pochettino and Guus Hiddink share a few words as the tackles fly in.

Kane rounds Asmir Begovic before tucking home the opener.

Heung-min Son makes it 2-0 to Spurs with a well-taken finish.

Mousa Dembele escaped a red card for appearing to eye-gouge Diego Costa.

Nervous, Spurs fans? Gary Cahill makes it 2-1.

Dembele reacts furiously to Hazard's leveller.

Hugo Lloris reflects on a missed opportunity.

Spurs saw their title hopes slip through their fingers.

The Chelsea striker - who had earlier been booked for clashing with Jan Vertonghen - had to be held back by his teammates following the incident, which was missed by the match officials.

Willian and Rose's coming together ended in the pair being cautioned to cap off an eventful, if fiery, first half to the London derby.



Follow the action live with Standard Sport's rolling blog from Stamford Bridge!



Please wait a moment for the blog to load.




