
British Cycling bosses claim the  suspension of Shane Sutton will not derail the team’s ambitions to top the Olympics medal table this summer for a third consecutive Games.

On the eve of the 100-day countdown to Rio, the Australian was stood down from his role as the team’s technical director following accusations that he made discriminatory remarks toward riders within the British set-up.

British Cycling’s top brass are meeting in Manchester in conjunction with  UK Sport to thrash out details of their  independent review into the claims against Sutton that surfaced last  week from former Great Britain rider Jess Varnish. Sutton, who denies all  the allegations, was due to issue a  statement today.

The cycling chiefs are looking to appoint a “person of stature” to head the review, while the team are being led for now by Andy Harrison, the  programmes director.

There is no suggestion former British Cycling boss Dave Brailsford will step in from his role at the head of Team Sky to fill the void left by his former No2’s departure.

A British Cycling source told Standard Sport: “Clearly it’s not great but most of the work in terms of preparation for the team has been done now and this won’t affect preparations for Rio.

“Shane, to his credit, has put in  quite a lot of work on the structure of the team so that the programme can function without a figurehead, as in  the past.”

There is no time frame for the review process but it seems unlikely that a solution will be concluded in time for the Rio Olympics.

Sutton was first in the spotlight when Varnish alleged that when her contract was not renewed, he had told her to “move on and have a baby” and that her “ass was too big” to ride certain roles on the sprint team.

Then, last night, it was claimed Sutton had referred to the Paralympians on the team as “gimps” and “wobblies”.Six-time Paralympic gold medallist Darren Kenny told the Daily Mail: “The attitude towards them was abysmal. We were tolerated at best. 

“The term used to refer to us was generally ‘gimps’ with another word in front of that. I know others had an issue as well with not being allowed on the track and not being given time to prepare for competitions.

“I don’t think we were ever considered to be elite athletes, in all honesty, by certain people and since I’ve left I’ve not seen or heard of any change towards equality.”

Another former British rider, Kelvin Batey, weighed into the debate today surrounding Sutton.

Batey, who was part of the BMX set-up until 2008 and now rides for Ireland, claimed on Twitter: “I have experienced Shane Sutton’s bullying tactics first hand, bad representative of British Cycling. 

“What goes around comes around. This man nearly ruined my life in 2008. At least some good came from it.”

In a statement last night, British Cycling said: “We are fully committed to the principles and active promotion of equality of opportunity and we  must take any such allegations  seriously.”

Laura Trott and Becky James had been due to speak at the Great Britain kit launch in London this morning but all interviews were cancelled following the ongoing furore over Sutton.




