
WBA and WBO heavyweight champion 
Tyson Fury
 has taunted 
Wladimir Klitschko
 about his own weight during a bizarre press conference ahead of the pair's rematch in July.

Fury beat the Ukrainian, who was champion for nine years, courtesy of a unanimous points decision in Dusseldorf last December, which was considered a huge upset.

The duo will are set to do battle at the Manchester Arena in three months' time and Fury wasted little time in goading the 40-year-old in front of a large media presence.

In an extraordinary series of events Fury removed his shirt and claimed Klitschko should be ashamed of losing to a man who is so overweight.

"Look at this Klitschko (pointing to his stomach). This beat you. Shame on you! You were beaten by a fat man!

"He’s a dangerous opponent, because I don’t live like a champion. I’m not an athlete. Don’t call me an athlete.

"I mean look at this, does this look like a fighters body?"

Fury also suggested that he does not enjoy boxing and would not be disappointed if he loses his belts to Klitschko as it would allow him to take an early retirement.

"I hate boxing. I hate it, I hate training, I hate speaking to all of you idiots.

"I would rather be at home eating sweets and chocolate with my kids. I hate boxing. But I am too f***** good at it to stop," he insisted.

"I hope Klitschko has the best camp and I hope he knocks me into next week. Because then I can retire happy and go on holiday," Fury added.

Klitschko faced several daunting questions, including one which accused of cheating, and is confident he will secure victory at the second time of asking.

"I have gone through a lot of emotions in the past months. I can confirm I made a mistake in the fight against Fury in Germany. That mistake cost me my titles.

"Of course, it is not easy to fight a challenger with the great skills that Fury has. 


A video posted by Tyson Fury (@gypsyking101)
 on 
Apr 26, 2016 at 1:29pm PDT


"I'm happy the fight will be staged here and not in Germany or the US. Because a lot of fans will be on his side. But there will be hardcore fans supporting me.

"I have more motivation than I have ever had because he will have more fans.

"I will knock Tyson Fury out. Period," he declared.

Fury has been touted as a potential opponent for Anthony Joshua if he comes through his clash with Klitschko unscathed, but swatted aside talk of the Watford-born fighter.

"We’re not here to talk about somebody else with a plastic belt. It’s an insult to mention somebody like that here," Fury insisted.
