Aizawl coach pleads against team’s relegation

Aizawl FC coach Jahar Das believes that the All India Football Federation (AIFF) should save the club from I-League relegation in order to “develop Indian football”.

The Mizoram side finished eighth in the recently-concluded league, one rung above bottom-placed DSK Shivajians. However, DSK Shivajians — a new corporate entry — had been granted immunity by the AIFF before the season began. This forced Aizawl out of the elite group.

“We have performed quite well this season, so the AIFF should give serious consideration to keeping us in the I-League main draw. 

The 2015-16 I-League season has been extremely successful, because all the teams have been evenly-matched.

“Bottom-placed sides have frequently defeated the top sides — the overall standard was high. 

“If the AIFF wants to develop Indian football, they should rule in favour of Aizawl FC,” Jahar told 
The Hindu 
here on the eve of his unit’s Federation Cup fixture against Bengaluru FC (BFC).

Jahar said nearly 90 per cent of his squad consists of local players — a feature not commonly seen among other Indian clubs.

Among Aizawl FC’s best achievements in its debut I-League sojourn was a 2-1 home victory over traditional powerhouse Mohun Bagan. 

In the opening Federation Cup outing, held at Aizawl a few days ago, the club posted a 2-1 win over current National champion BFC. With an average spectator turnout of around 6,300 for their home league matches at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium, the club has managed to build a healthy following.

The cause found support in BFC coach Ashley Westwood, who had said in Aizawl: “It’s disappointing to see them relegated because they play good attacking football, have pace and use local talent.”

I-League CEO Sunando Dhar stated that the Aizawl FC team management is yet to file an official request. 

“They have spoken to us over the phone a few times in the past, asking us to exempt them from relegation, but they are yet to file an official request. If the club files a formal letter, we can discuss the matter,” Dhar said.
