Chelsea 2 Tottenham 2: Leicester are Premier League champions as Spurs throw away London derby while Mousa Dembele and Diego Costa clash

Leicester were crowed Premier League champions after Tottenham capitulated at Chelsea.

Spurs needed to win to keep this remarkable title race alive but they threw away a two-goal lead to blow their chances.

First-half goals from Harry Kane and Heung-min Son had Tottenham in front at half time but Mauricio Pochettino’s side threw it away after the break.

Gary Cahill pulled a goal back for Chelsea early in the second half and Eden Hazard equalised eight minutes from time.

“Leicester, Leicester, Leicester” rang around Stamford Bridge as the title headed to Claudio Ranieri’s side.

Tottenham their heads at the end of the match as their title dreams ended.

Some Chelsea players had said publicly that they wanted Leicester to win the title and the animosity between these two sides was clear in the opening minutes.

Cesc Fabregas had a little kick out at Moussa Dembele off the ball. John Mikel Obi then pushed Dembele in the back before the two squared up. Branislav Ivanovic clattered Danny Rose on halfway and was lucky to escape a yellow card.

Both sides had chances in the first half-hour. Rose sent a rising effort from 25 yards just over. Fabregas side-footed wide. Heung-min Son could not find the target from the edge of the area and Hugo Lloris tipped over a powerful Diego Costa shot.

Spurs went ahead on 35 minutes. Erik Lamela threaded a pass through to Kane, who did brilliantly to round Asmir Begovic and keep his balance to roll into an empty net.

And it was 2-0 a minute before half time when Christian Eriksen played in Son and he slotted the ball under Begovic to send the away end into ecstasy.

Tempers then flared just before the break. Mauricio Pochettino came on the pitch to break up a scuffle between Willian and Danny Rose right in front of the dugouts before players and coaches from both sides came together in a huge melee.

Dembele appeared to gouge the eyes of Costa and will could face a retrospective ban from the Football Association that could end his season early. Referee Mark Clattenburg eventually calmed things down and Spurs went in two goals in front.

But Chelsea pulled a goal back 13 minutes into the second half. Spurs failed to deal with a corner and Cahill swept home from 12 yards to reduce the deceit to one.

Straight away Chelsea pushed for an equaliser and put Spurs under severe pressure. 

Eden Hazard, on as a substitute at half time, played in Willian but he shot straight at Lloris from inside the area when he should have done better. Hazard then sent a low cross into the area and a sliding Spurs defender deflected the ball wide for a corner.

Spurs were hanging on and did have a chance to seal it on the break 15 minutes from time. Ryan Mason, on as a substitute, only had Begovic to beat after a good Spurs move but he could only shoot straight at the Chelsea goalkeeper.

But Chelsea did level eight minutes from time to end Tottenham’s title hopes.




