Chelsea boss Guus Hiddink questions whether Tottenham have the guts to keep title fight alive


Chelsea
’s interim manager 
Guus Hiddink
 has questioned whether 
Tottenham
 have the strength of character to stay alive in the title race.

Spurs travel to Stamford Bridge this evening knowing that anything less than victory will see Leicester City crowned champions.

“In some players it might cause nerves and not by attitude, they might underperform a bit. Leicester are fearless but some (Tottenham) players might be affected by being on top and think: ‘What now?,” said Hiddink.

“We have not to over-evaluate it in the sense it is just Tottenham.

Manchester City’s defeat at Southampton yesterday confirmed a top four finish for Tottenham, and victory tonight would close the gap on Leicester to five points with two matches left to play.

Chelsea meanwhile can only jump to ninth with a win tonight, and Hiddink has called on his players to finish a disappointing season in an ‘honourable way’. 

"We desperately like to win then next game and then we have massive games against Sunderland and Leicester. The players don’t need to be told, whether playing Spurs now or another team in the future.

Who makes the cut ahead of Monday night's clash at Stamford Bridge?

The Frenchman is the glue which holds Tottenham's defence together. The 29-year-old has conceded just 25 goals this season, keeping a total of 13 clean sheets in the process, and claims a place in our side ahead of Thibaut Courtois and Asmir Begovic, both of whom have left Chelsea pining for Petr Cech.

The 25-year-old's performances have been far from flawless, but finally appears to have unlocked the key to consistent performances. Walker is a constant menace in attack and has improved drastically in his own third of the pitch. With Chelsea not boasting a settled right back, it's another victory for Spurs.

Spurs coped well during Vertonghen's absence due to injury but they have looked even more assured now he has returned to the fold. Simply put, the Belgian is a man you would want alongside you in the trenches. The same statement cannot be said of many Chelsea defenders this season, such has been the manner of their decline from the most feared defensive unit in the Premier League to a mid-table outfit.

The Belgian's form this season has been superb. He was deservedly included in the PFA Team of the Season and was perhaps unfortunate not to be nominated for the individual accolade too. His passing repertoire is the best - bar none - among the defenders in the division. And he's got a nose for a goal too.

The full back has been a slow burner but has finally flourished under Mauricio Pochettino. Rose has seen off competition from Ben Davies to establish himself as first choice and is better than any of the options at Chelsea's disposal. Even the reliable figure of Cesar Azpilicueta has been surpassed by the Englishman this term.

The Belgian's powerful, surging runs from deep are crucial in regards to linking defence and attack. Dembele is one of few senior heads in Tottenham's side and is an ideal example to follow. Having extended his contract in January, Dembele is in it for the long haul and helps the north Londoners to compete physically in the centre of the park.

The England international began the campaign as Tottenham's third-choice centre back but will finish it as one of the division's leading holding midfielders. Dier's input may not be spectacular but he does the basics extremely well, which is precisely what the likes of Nemanja Matic had to go back to after a poor start to the season.

The Brazilian has been Chelsea's best player this season and, despite not proving as effective in the No.10 role against Bournemouth last week as he so normally is on the flank, Willian's high work rate coupled with his ability to pressurise opposition defences with his pace and free kicks means he comfortably takes a spot in our team.

The Spaniard was Chelsea's stand-out performer against Bournemouth after creating three of his team's goals, which ensures he now has the third-highest number of assists in the Premier League (95) after Frank Lampard (102) and Ryan Giggs (162). He has slowly but surely returned to form, and therefore deserves a place in our XI with Dele Alli suspended.

The Danish midfielder endured a relatively slow start to the season - and had to adapt to a new position after being pushed out to the left to accommodate Dele Alli.- but has now returned to form. Eden Hazard, meanwhile, scored his first goal of the season last weekend but still has a long way to go before he could potentially be preferred to Eriksen.

Diego Costa excelled in the early stages of Guus Hiddink's tenure but still has less than half of Harry Kane's total of 24 Premier League goals this season.. The Spurs golden boy is on course to win the Golden Boot and is fully committed to the club's long-term project, while Costa's future remains in doubt.


www.sharemytactics.com


“If we lose to Tottenham, we might come under some scrutiny. It says Chelsea were very strong in the past playing Tottenham at Stamford Bridge and hope we can do similar.

"I cannot give a guarantee of the result but I can guarantee effort will be there. They must finish it (the season) in an honourable way.”




