
Research conducted by LloydsPharmacy has shown not taking medicine in line with the instructions can cause additional health problems - with 44 per cent of people who take medicines experiencing avoidable side effects.

Experts say if some medication is stopped too early the person’s condition can become harder to control.

If people take the medication at the wrong time of day or before or after food, absorption of the medicine could be affected and it could be less effective.

Pharmacist Alison Freemantle said those who find it most difficult to manage medication, in her experience, are cardiovascular disease (CVD) patients, Type 2 diabetes patients, those on antibiotics and those that take less frequent doses of medication.

This is because unlike a pain or a skin problem, CVD and Type 2 diabetes are often asymptomatic - which means the person often doesn’t feel or see any differences taking medications and the side effects can put them off.

Alison added: ”On the other hand, antibiotics can cause problems as they often need to be taken 3 or 4 times a day, and are easily forgotten.

“As they are only taken for a short period of time, no habit is formed.

“People often stop taking them without completing the course as they start to feel better and want to end the side effects, but the infection may not be fully cleared.”

Experts suggest it is still worth completing the course of medication even if you have missed days in treatment, so patients get some benefit to help reduce symptoms.

They also warn it is never a good idea to share someone else’s 
prescription
 medication as it has been prescribed specifically for that person, taking into account their medical history.

Some foods also affect how well medication works - grapefruit can block the breakdown of enzymes when taking some medications. 

This means medication can sometimes not be broken down and can lead to overdose.

Research shows there is also some evidence to suggest that we taking warfarin - medicine which stops blood from clotting - and consuming significant amounts of Brussel sprouts which are high in vitamin K, can also affect the action of the medication.

Pharmacists can also prescribe different forms of medications - such as a liquid tablet if people have problems swallowing.

In June 2015, NHS England said an estimated £300 million worth of medication is wasted each year because people don’t take medicine as prescribed, patients are getting adverse side effects and stop their medication, they forget to take medicine and sometimes even stock pile medicines to use just in case they get symptoms.
