
Public Health England said cases of measles are being confirmed mainly in adolescents and young adults  - where the illness can be more severe - because they haven't been vaccinated when they are young.

It is calling for parents across England to get their children vaccinated against measles, mumps and rubella to protect them from the illnesses. The organisation said 24,000 children in England need to have the injection every year to close the 'immunisation gap'.

Measles is a highly infectious viral illness that can be very unpleasant and sometimes lead to serious complications.

NHS Choices said it is estimated 1 in 5,000 people will die from the infection. Two doses of the 
MMR
 vaccination also provides protection against two other common highly infectious diseases - mumps and rubella.

In March, doctors expressed concern they were seeing the start of a measles outbreak in London and the south east.

PHE detected 20 cases in the region over just a few weeks, compared with 91 in the whole of England last year.

MMR is given to children aged 12 months, with a second dose shortly after their third birthday.

Figures for 2014 to 2015 have shown that too few children in England are still being vaccinated to reach a target set by the World Health Organisation (WHO).

The WHO says 95 per cent of children need to be vaccinated for herd immunity.

In 2014/15, 92.3 per cent of children were vaccinated with the first dose of MMR by their second birthday, down on the previous year.

Some 88.6 per cent of children had received both doses of MMR by their fifth birthday, a slight increase on the previous year although still below the WHO target.

Dr Mary Ramsay, head of immunisation at PHE said: "We're asking parents, young people and healthcare professionals to help us eradicate measles in this country.

"Back in days before a vaccine was available, hundreds of thousands caught measles and around 100 people died each year. But now, the whole community benefits from the herd immunity the safe and effective MMR vaccination offers. Fewer people get ill and the disease's spread is restricted."

She added: "This is an opportunity to consign measles to the history books.

"The cases we are seeing currently in England are being confirmed mainly in adolescents and young adults, and it's never too late for them to have the vaccine.

"Those who have not received two doses of the vaccine in the past - or who are unsure - should speak to their GP. There's no harm in receiving an additional dose where there is any uncertainty."

Uptake of the MMR vaccine fell heavily in the late 1990s following the publication by Dr Andrew Wakefield of research suggesting a possible link between the vaccine and autism.

Experts have widely discredited his study and he was struck off the medical register in 2010.

Signs of measles include cold-like symptoms, sore red eyes, a high temperature and a red-brown blotchy rash.

Dr Ramsay added: "It's crucial pregnant women have been vaccinated with MMR as rubella in particular can cause serious complications during pregnancy. The MMR vaccination provides you and your baby important protection and can be given before you become pregnant or after you've given birth. 

“Pregnant women who are unsure if they've been vaccinated should check with their GP."
