
Official statistics have revealed STIs are soaring in perhaps an unexpected age group: the over 45s. 

Syphilis has skyrocketed, with cases in middle age people increasing by a staggering 74 per cent between 2012 and 2014. 

Gonorrhoea also increased by 65 per cent in this age group, following warnings from health officials of a drug-resistant stand of of the STI. 

Amid these worrying trends, health experts have calculated which areas of the UK are most at risk.



The interactive map has been created by online GP service Euroclinix, to show how many middle-aged people have been diagnosed with syphilis, gonorrhoea, chlamydia, genital warts or genital herpes. 

It revealed London is the STI centre of the country, with a 28 per cent spike in diagnosed cases. 

The capital has seen gonorrhoea spike by 65 per cent, chlamydia by 22 per cent and herpes is up by 9 per cent.

Regional areas have a slightly better outlook, though. 



Diagnoses have decreased in North East England by three per cent and the West Midlands saw an 18 per cent decrease in cases. 

Official government data was used to construct the map, though experts also warn many cases go undiagnosed. 

Experts attribute the increase in STIs among over 45s to the skyrocketing divorce rate. 

People in their 50s, 60s and 70s are re-entering the dating scene and having new sexual partners. Often, with a lack of awareness about modern safe sex methods due to a lack of education. 

Older adults are also becoming increasingly popular with dating websites and apps such as Tinder. 

The news comes as a 
study revealed over half (54 per cent) of Britons admit to not using contraception 
every time they have sex.

Research, conducted by www.MedExpress.co.uk, found 91 per cent of those who decline to use contraception rely on the ‘pull out’ method.

Michael Ross, spokesperson for the brand, said: “The absolute worst thing about practicing unsafe sex or using the pull out method is the fact that you are giving yourself absolutely no protection against STIs.” 






