
A new report, commissioned by Laundrapp, the laundry and dry cleaning service, uncovers unknown facts of bedroom grime across the nation and has found Brits falling foul of basic sanitary routines.

Closely inspecting duvet hygiene, the study finds from the 97 per cent of Brits who sleep with a duvet, an embarrassing 20 per cent admit it’s never been washed – suggesting over 13 million Brits enjoy snuggling up under filthy duvets bursting with bacteria, dust mites and skin scales.

A further 78 per cent reveal to have washed it only once in the past six to 12 months – an unpleasant nine months longer than the recommended time.

Dust mites are one of the biggest causes of allergies in the home and thrive in warm humid conditions like your bed. Each tiny mite will produce up to 2,000 particles of waste during its 10-week life cycle, causing havoc to sufferers of asthma and rhinitis.

Experts say that the minute creepy-crawlies can only be removed if bedding is washing on a hot setting of around 60 degrees.

Surprisingly, women are reported to be less hygienic than their male counterparts when it comes to bedroom grime.

A staggering quarter of females reveal their duvets have successfully dodged the inside of washing machine since being purchased – unfazed by the rumoured litre of sweat humans lose during a typical night’s sleep.

In contrast 87 per cent of British blokes proudly look after their bedroom wears, with nearly three quarters washing it once during the past five months.

And it’s not just what you sleep under, it’s what you sleep in – a further 85 per cent of soap dodging females confess pyjamas are worn up to 52 hours on average before they see a soap, compared to just over half of males - 57 per cent.
 
What’s more, cleanliness doesn’t improve with age either, people aged between 35 and 44 seem to be the filthiest when it comes to bedroom cleaning habits.
 
The study also indicates the foulest duvet dodgers live in Worcester - with 45 per cent admitting to never washing their cover, closely followed by their neighbours in Cambridge - 40 per cent. 

Only 30 per cent of people in Plymouth and Aberdeen never wash their duvet, followed by 29 per cent of people in Bristol.

Able to hold their heads high, homeowners in Swansea are the cleanest with almost a third - 28 per cent - stating they washed their duvet in the last couple of days. 
 
Edward Relf, founder and chief executive at Laundrapp, said: “We’re horrified to hear how Brits let bedroom grime build up – especially with essential household items like duvets that soak up all that sweat and skin scales. 
 
Laundrapp bosses are warning people how bad sanitary conditions can affect human health. 

“We pride ourselves on offering householders a simple, quality and convenient collect and deliver laundry service which keeps dust mites and bacteria at bay – combatting the worsening of allergies and respiratory conditions like asthma.”
