
A study of 11,000 people with the condition has revealed only a third of patients who needed further medication were actually given it.

Sufferers with the condition have to control their blood glucose levels by regulating their diet, but if this doesn’t work patients need insulin to keep levels stable.

The condition is a progressive disease and more intensive treatments are needed to keep the 
diabetes
 under control to prevent complications such as blindness, kidney failure and limb amputations.

However a study by the University of Leicester, published in the journal Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism, showed two thirds of people who needed additional treatment were not given it.

The research found the average waiting time for increased treatment from the start of insulin is 3.7 years and those waiting longest were the elderly or those who have been living with the condition for a long time.

Diabetics are also five times more likely to have cardiovascular disease such as a stroke.

The number of people living with Type 2 diabetes is rapidly increasing. The condition is often associated with obesity and tends to be diagnosed in older people.

An estimated one in 16 people Britons or 3.9 million, has diabetes either diagnosed or undiagnosed - nine in ten with type 2.

It can be prevented from developing by making lifestyle changes such as eating a healthy, balanced diet, losing and maintaining a healthy weight, quitting smoking, cutting down on drinking and exercising.

As type 2 diabetes usually gets worse, diabetics may eventually need medication to keep blood glucose at normal levels.

Professor Kamlesh Khunti said: "Type 2 diabetes is a progressive disease characterised by a decline in Î²-cell function and loss of glycaemic control, with many patients ultimately requiring intensification of their treatment regime.

"Guidelines for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes suggest that tight glycaemic control should be maintained - defined as glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) less than 7 per cent (53 mmol/mol) - through active titration of combinations of antihyperglycaemic medications and lifestyle modification, as appropriate.

"Additional antihyperglycaemic drugs may be added if the HbA1c level continues to remain above the recommended target of 7 per cent.

"If HbA1c is greater than 7.5 per cent (58 mmol/mol), further intensification, including the use of insulin, is recommended.

"As people with diabetes move through the recommended treatment algorithm, those patients who are suboptimally controlled according to the guideline targets may be at greater risk of long-term diabetes-related complications.

“Of the 11,000 patients we studied, only a third of those needing further medication were actually given it.

"Clinical inertia is a global phenomenon, which is putting people with Type 2 diabetes at further risk of preventable complications associated with the condition."

The retrospective study investigated whether clinical inertia exists in people with type 2 diabetes treated with basal insulin.

It involved 11,696 patients with type 2 diabetes in the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink database between January 2004 and December 2011, with follow-up until December 2013.

Professor Khunti added: "In conclusion, the present study shows that there is a significant delay in the intensification of treatment in people with type 2 diabetes with poor glycaemic control, and that many patients do not have their treatment intensified at all.

"Clinical inertia appears to exist at both the initiation and intensification of insulin therapy.

"This may have a negative impact on the long-term outcomes for patients.

"More detailed studies, perhaps using patient and physician questionnaires, should attempt to establish the reasons for a delay in intensification, particularly among elderly people with diabetes and those with comorbidities."




