Sleeping on the job


NAPS
 have become a First World luxury, but they don't have to cost much. Not at I'm So Sleepy at least. The napping station is the first of its kind in the Klang Valley, offering a quiet and comfortable space to rest and relax starting from RM8 per 30 minutes. In fact, the rate gets cheaper for every additional half-hour you take. 

I'm So Sleepy opened its doors last November, after its founders Tan Ser Fei and Kim Wong toyed with the idea for almost a year. An engineer by profession, Tan is always on the move from site to site, and has always wished for a pit stop to take a power nap before continuing his work. 

The (American) National Sleep Foundation pointed out that naps can restore, increase and extend alertness, enhance performance, and reduce mistakes and accidents. It's also an easy way to get some relaxation and rejuvenation. Sure enough, the husband-and-wife team did their research and uncovered the endless benefits of napping, affirming their plan to kick off I'm So Sleepy.  

"Researching and finding out that napping does a lot of good for our bodies changed the way we look at things. It's not just about getting rid of drowsiness and feeling better. Did you know it helps prevent heart disease too? We were surprised!" quipped Wong. 

The initial idea of providing a space for working professionals (most of us) to quickly relieve their fatigue for a burst of energy and better productivity throughout the rest of the working day evolved as the couple did more observation. 

"I have colleagues who are new parents complaining about being tired during the day from waking up in the middle of the night – it's a long and painful cycle. Naps during the day can benefit at night, even with little hours of sleep. You feel better when you get home, and less tired the next day," said Wong. 

I'm So Sleepy is also ideal for those who have"in-between time" to kill, Wong highlighted. Whether you're waiting for your car to be serviced, or you have nowhere to go until your next appointment (because who wants to stay in the office or spend unnecessarily on a designer latte in a cafe?), the napping hub is an inexpensive and peaceful place to be.

"Everything is so fast in big cities that we don't slow down and spend time by ourselves. When we go home, we have things to do as well. Here you can take a nap, do some reading and just enjoy your own company," Wong suggested. 

Strategically located in the bustling area of Damansara Uptown, the napping hub houses 14 cubicles, each equipped with a plush bed and pillow. A free ? ow of brown rice tea is served on top of complimentary fast Wi-Fi and shower access, although bath towels – alongside blankets and massage mats – are chargeable at RM5 per item. If you're self-conscious about snoring while you snooze, nasal strips are available for purchase too.

The start-up may still be in the infant stage, with an average of four to five clients a day, but if you'd take a look at I'm So Sleepy's Facebook page, there has been requests for the napping hub to operate in other high-density areas. 

"There are people who send us messages, asking if we're in Kuala Lumpur city centre and Puchong. We're still very new but we look forward to expand. We're looking to venture into KL Sentral area," Wong revealed. 

She's convinced that I'm So Sleepy is on the right track, but there's much to be done in terms of evaluation, research and education before expansion can take place.

"We hope to change the way people look at naps, which is often associated with being lazy or sloppy, to a positive light.

"Taking a nap during lunch hour can boost performance and productivity at work, and eventually benefit the company," she noted. 

I'm So Sleepy is o pen Monday to Friday, from 10am to 8pm for your much needed siestas. Pay only RM8 for 30 minutes, RM12 for 60 minutes, RM16 for 90 minutes, and RM20 for 120 minutes of downtime.






















Kuala Lumpur

