Aiming for health target


IT'S A
 common belief that it takes 21 days to form a new habit. Inspired by this, Mission Foods Malaysia has teamed up with fitness guru Dave Nuku and celebrity nutritionist Alexandra Prabaharan to create a simple-to-follow 21-day health and fitness programme called #The21DayMission.

“The 21-day programme solidifies a strategic pillar to the brand – which is to continue driving awareness on the importance of healthy eating and living in the community,” said Randall Tan, the brand manager for Gruma Singapore Pte Ltd, the parent company of Mission Foods. 

“With the launch of #The21DayMission, we feel we can make a difference in people’s lives by making it easier for them to start this journey and encouraging them to start thinking about getting better, fitter and feeling great about themselves.”

The fitness part of this programme is based on a workout regimen drawn up by Nuku, a certified personal trainer and international presenter on health and fitness issues. 

Nuku was also one of the main trainers on the 
The Biggest Loser Asia
 reality TV series, as well as the co-founder of the Fire Station gym in Kuala Lumpur. 

He has dedicated his life to helping people achieve their goals and transform their lives through achieving a healthier body, mind and spirit.

According to Nuku, there are two parts to his fitness plan – high-intensity interval training (HIIT); and yoga recovery. 

He combined these two regimes so that those who follow it will be able to push their limits for one day and rest and recover on the next. 

The workout is also said to be ideal for individuals of all fitness levels.

The nutrition part of the programme is handled by Alexandra, a renowned certified nutritionist with the American Fitness Professionals and Associates (AFPA). 

She has created a delicious meal plan that includes breakfast, lunch and dinner recipes to complement the fitness regime. 

All the recipes are designed to be simple to prepare as they use easy-to-find ingredients and Missions Foods wraps, pita, naan and tortilla chips.

To be a part of this potentially life-changing programme, just head on over to Mission Foods Malaysia’s Facebook page and subscribe to it. 

Subscription is free and once that is done, subscribers will be sent links to exercise videos from Nuku and meal plans by Alexandra to help them prepare for #The21DayMission, which is set to go live on May 9.

Mission Foods Malaysia is also giving participants a chance to win one of 12 packages worth RM5,000 each in  #The21DayMission contest. 

The 12 lucky winners will receive three meals prepared by Huios Meal Prep delivered daily to their home or office, and full access to the Fire Station gym to train with Nuku and his team of trainers. 

Hurry and check out Mission Foods Malaysia’s Facebook and Instagram pages for the chance to win one of these packages. 

Winners will be announced on the first week of May.

For more, visit the Mission Food Malaysia Facebook page (
www.facebook.com/missionfoodsmalaysia/
) and website (
www.missionfoods.com.my
).






















Kuala Lumpur

