
Last week, I happened to read an article that advocated single-tasking — the forgotten art of focussing on one thing at a time, and doing it right. My initial reaction was a raised eyebrow, but something made me click through and read the piece anyway. The concept is as simple as it sounds, that in a world where you are not being productive without juggling 400 things at once, we forget to focus fully on anything. 

Here is the irony though. As I nodded in agreement to how the very tools and systems designed to make our lives easier were making us less productive, I realised I was committing all the sins the social media generation is guilty of. Sitting with an open lunchbox at my workstation, with 10 tabs open, reading a nearly two-year-old article I had saved ages ago to Pocket for later reading, I was a prime example of trying to do too much and achieving too little, in results and satisfaction. The problem: we reward ourselves for multi-tasking without considering if we are being more productive as a result, and we embrace tools designed to fuel this tendency.

The success of Slack, the poster boy of workplace efficiency improvement, is the result of this problem. Where there was once e-mail, itself a distraction with multiple mails popping in during the day, came a slick new system with better chat facilities and workflow management. As a 
Medium 
post titled ‘Slack, I’m breaking up with you’ earlier in the year pointed out, the app presented a better-looking and functioning alternative to e-mail, not a solution to the inherent problem of dealing with a thousand distractions. Making a problem look better does not solve it. 

Calling e-mail a distraction, however, is old-fashioned; for now, we have a bigger contender for our attention: the newsfeed. On Facebook, Twitter, Flipboard or Feedly, every open tab and app has a constantly updating list of content, perusing which is a lot like running on a treadmill. We open listicles about destinations we haven’t been to but should, share that picture of a cute puppy, and save what might be an interesting article for later reading because we don’t have the ten minutes required to read it. 

According to a study conducted by Microsoft in Canada using quantitative surveys and neurological research, the average attention span of human beings has reportedly come down to eight seconds now, as opposed to 12 seconds at the start of the millennium, and the technological revolution. Goldfish, which have been the punchline of attention span jokes for years, are believed to have a nine-second span.

Researchers believe our brains have been rewiring themselves to become better multi-taskers while discarding sustained attention span. While this is great to show off workplace performance, it slowly kills the joy derived from ‘flow’ moments, a psychological term used to refer to ‘being in the zone’, or completely focussed on a single activity.

With web apps and push notifications being developed, even desktop computers can now distract us with pop-up notifications. 

As I write this (with 23 tabs open), I get a notification about a game sale on Steam, eliciting another click. And as the despair at my own weakness sets in, a colleague tweets about how having a broken phone led her to finish a book and make time for yoga classes. Hope endures.
