

NO
 longer content with sofas and armchairs, the biggest names in design are branching out into the world of home appliances and connected objects as a new playground for their creative talent.



Wistiki by Philippe Starck



May 3 sees Wistiki launch its collaboration with the internationally renowned designer, Philippe Starck. The fruit of this union is the "Wistiki voilà!" (€49.90, RM219.56), a small rectangular object designed to be added to a bunch of keys. This small device then makes sure they never go astray, as when keys are misplaced, the "Wistiki voilà!" can be made to ring via a smartphone app. Simply track down the sound to locate your keys. And, if it's the smartphone that's lost, pressing the Philippe Starck object can make your mobile ring. Key fobs that are out of earshot can be geolocalised on a map. The application registers and recalls the last place the owner was in close proximity to their "Wistiki voilà!" Similar objects for tracking down pets and wallets are also in the pipeline.



Ikea brings wireless charging home



The Swedish furniture and homewares giant has developed a range of wireless chargers, stylishly designed to seamlessly integrate home interiors. The range includes single and triple charging stations, as well as two nightstands, a floor lamp and two table lamps with inbuilt wireless charging technology.







Google livens up router design



The wireless router is a connected device found in almost all homes with internet connections. However, for the most part, they're still pretty ugly pieces of equipment. In a bid to end this aesthetic injustice, Google invited designers to overhaul the look of the humble router. The result is 24 highly original-looking devices, presented online at onhubmakers.withgoogle.com, with models finished in fur, turned into a fruit bowl and concealed with a Slinky spring toy.



The Bourroulec brothers' stylised TV



The French designers teamed up for a collaboration with South Korean tech giant, Samsung. This gave rise to the "Serif" TV set. This TV's build makes it easy to handle and move around. It can, for example, be placed on top of a piece of furniture or stand on its accompanying legs.



Dolce &amp; Gabbana's colourful fridge



Italian fashion house Dolce &amp; Gabbana is branching out into a new sector with a foray into the world of home appliances. The design duo teamed up with Smeg to make a refrigerator unlike any other. For just 100 limited-edition models, the fridge's classic rectangular build has been decorated by Sicilian artists with a busy motif of lemons, cartwheels, medieval knights and battle scenes. — 
AFP Relaxnews























Kuala Lumpur

