
For employees and companies alike, managing commute options to and from work consumes a lot of resources and ends up making most people unhappy. MoveInSync, a firm started by Deepesh Agarwal and his friends from IIT-Madras, has attempted to find automated solutions to sort out transport hassles. Deepesh says, “I worked with Motorola many years ago and developed transporting solutions for an American firm. During one of my visits to the U.S., I figured that instead of trying to find solutions to problems that I do not understand, I should try and sort out issues that I am aware of. After a stint at the ISB in Hyderabad, I started looking at providing ride-sharing options to people from the new airport to the city. We approached a few corporate clients and soon understood the issues most companies faced in bringing their employees to work.”

He adds, “The system was run manually, using paper sheets. It was tough to process commuting solutions for thousands of employees and this led to loss of productivity and monetary resources.”

MoveInSync created a mobile-based solution that ensured an Android phone was provided in all cabs leased to the company. “The driver gets his pickup list on the app. People are grouped on specific routes using a routing algorithm. The app also automates despatch issues, which ensures cab drivers are paid on time. It also has inbuilt features that let one monitor the duration taken for each ride, and the time the cab reaches the pick-up point and returns. This made a lot of things easier for the drivers and ensured that offices did away with reams of paper and complex systems. We have more than a lakh people using cabs fixed with the MoveInSync app on a daily basis in 14 cities across the country,” explains Deepesh.

Deepesh says that a lot needs to be done to sort out issues related to workplace commute in India. “We want to devise a system that will work across companies in a ride-sharing format. In the long run, it will solve the issue and also be beneficial to the environment.”
