
Microsoft has not given up on its commitment to Windows 10 Mobile – despite the company now offering 
a buy-one-get-one free offer on its flagship smartphones
.

Windows 10 Mobile devices 
are currently in a slow decline
.

Microsoft sold 2.3 million Lumia handsets during its most recent quarter – a staggering 73 per cent drop from the 8.6 million sold last year.

The Redmond technology company is believed to be building a new flagship smartphone designed from the ground-up by the team behind the Surface Pro and Surface Book.

A report from blog Windows Central claimed 
Microsoft green-lit plans for an Intel-powered Surface Phone back in December
.

However the Surface Phone is believed to be closely tied to the next blockbuster Windows 10 update, codenamed RedStone 2.

Unfortunately that's currently slated for a April 2017 release, which means Surface fans might have to wait until Microsoft Build 2017 to get a glimpse of the new gadget.

The overall experience of using Windows 10 Mobile on a smartphone is an area Microsoft is looking to improve with its upcoming updates.

According to reports within the company, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella's push on security within the Windows ecosystem will also play heavily into the design and functionality of the forthcoming Surface Phone.

Microsoft is expected to position the Surface Phone based on the productivity of the Windows 10 platform.

Like the Surface Pro before it was the tablet that could replace your laptop, the team is expected to focus on Continuum and the potential to work on the road with a Surface Phone.

Previous reports from within Microsoft have claimed Surface Phone will feature an industrial design similar to the Surface Book and Pro 4 tablet.


Like the Surface Book laptop
 and 
Surface Pro 4 tablet
 before it, the Surface smartphone is expected to ship with flagship materials and a premium price tag to match.

Surface Vice President Panos Panay and his team are believed to be looking into building an all-metal case for the smartphone, which will run Windows 10 Mobile.

Industry sources claim Intel is heavily involved in the smartphone project.

The hugely successful chipmaker could help the Surface smartphone realise its plans to bridge the gap between a smartphone and a productive mobile device.
