
Microsoft is steaming ahead towards its next blockbuster update, 
codenamed RedStone
.

The major operating system update will be released this summer under the name, Windows 10 Anniversary Update, and will include a swathe of new features and refinements to existing functionality.

Some of these features are included in the new Fast Ring test build, number 14328, which is available now for Windows Insiders with either PC desktop machines or smartphones.

Amongst the biggest changes to the operating system, Microsoft has pushed-out its new Start Menu.

The Redmond technology firm 
previewed some of the visual changes earlier this month
, asking Windows fans for feedback on the new design and functionality.

The biggest change to the Start Menu is the merge of All and Most Used Apps as the default.

So you can now access all your apps with one click on the Start menu.

Finally, with this new design, any additional folders you have chosen to appear on Start (via Settings &gt; Personalisation &gt; Start such as Documents or Pictures) will now be immediately available on Start, so you no longer have to hit the hamburger button.

Settings and Power options have also been slimmed down to icons, held in the left-hand side of the Start Menu.

When you switch to tablet mode, the Start Menu expands to full-screen and you can scroll through a complete list of installed apps.

You can now choose to only auto-hide the taskbar in tablet mode. By hiding the taskbar, apps can take full advantage of the screen.

Microsoft made a big deal about the introduction of Windows Ink during its Build 2016 developer conference, dubbing the technology 

The Windows 10 Fast Ring test build 14328 brings the new feature to your two-in-one convertible or Windows 10 tablet and lets you create a sticky note, or virtual white board to scrawl your handwritten notes.

Cortana can also scan handwritten notes and parse it for information, including reminders, event locations and dates.

Microsoft apps that support Windows Ink during this early stage of its development include Edge, Maps and Office.

Elsewhere, there are a slew of other tweaks and updates, including the Action Centre moving to the far corner of the taskbar so it's easier to interact with, there's also a badge that now displays the number of notifications, and your upcoming calendar events are now included in the taskbar clock flyout.

This new build also includes the long-rumoured Cortana-lockscreen change, so you can now interact with the Windows 10 voice assistant and ask her to set reminders like "Buy Milk Before I Get Home" from the lockscreen.

You can also add a new event by clicking the “+” button.

A four finger swipe to the left or right of your touchpad will now switch between your virtual desktops.

The news comes as Microsoft announced it would be handing out a free flagship smartphone to certain customers.

Microsoft last week pushed out a new firmware update for its first laptop, 
the Surface Book
, and best-selling 
Surface Pro range
 that aimed to fix a number of glitches and bugs.

Windows 10 is currently a free operating system upgrade to 
customers running genuine versions of Windows 7
, 
Windows 8 and Windows 8.1
.

If you have managed to get your version of Windows 10 up and running smoothly 
– 
Express.co.uk
 has rounded up 7 Top Tips to Master your new OS
.

And if you are feeling negative towards the new operating system, 
here are the worst features included in Windows 10
.
