
Apple's revenue has dropped for the first time since 2003, as the Cupertino technology colossus reported iPhone sales have dropped for the first time in the device's history.

The iPhone manufacturer reported revenue of $50.6 billion, some £34.7 billion, for the first three months of 2016 – a drop of 13 per cent on the same period last year.

Apple shipped 51 million iPhones during that period. The US firm sold 61 million during the same three months last year.

Sales of the iPhone account for more than half of Apple's total revenue.

When Apple CEO Tim Cook last night confirmed that sales of the iconic smartphone had dropped for the first time, the company's shares plummeted by more than 8 per cent in after-hours trading.

That decline dropped the market value of Apple by more than $40 billion 
– or about the entire market value of streaming firm, Netflix
.

Apple had hoped to combat the decline in sales with the release of a new four-inch smartphone, iPhone SE.

The device is believed to be aimed at emerging markets such as China and India and boasts Apple's lowest-ever launch price.

Aside from its 
new Rose Gold paint job, the iPhone SE looks identical to Apple's 2013 flagship smartphone
, iPhone 5S. But inside, the latest Apple smartphone packs almost all of the capabilities of Apple's top-tier iPhone 6S.

UK prices for the iPhone SE start from £359, for 16GB of internal storage.

Apple CEO Tim Cook said of the latest results: "Our team executed extremely well in the face of strong macroeconomic headwinds.

"We are very happy with the continued strong growth in revenue from Services, thanks to the incredible strength of the Apple ecosystem and our growing base of over one billion active devices."

The other flagship products in Apple's line-up – 
the recently-updated iPad range
 and its Mac desktop and laptop computers - both also recorded a decline in their sales for the first three months of the year.

But it wasn't all bad news.

Apple CEO Tim Cook reported that App Store revenue was up 35 per cent. 

The company's 
contactless touch-to-pay system Apple Pay
 has grown five-fold compared to a year ago, with more than one million users being added to the service every week.

Of the 51 million people who did buy iPhones during the last three months, a record number of people switched from Android and other rival smartphone platforms, Mr Cook confirmed to investors.

Apple's Spotify rival Apple Music 
(which we reviewed here)
 also had a good financial quarter, with paid subscribers now topping 13 million, up from 11 million in February.
