
iPhone owners can quickly free-up storage space on their devices without deleting any apps, music or photos, thanks to this simple trick.

The unbelievably easy tip has been circulating on Reddit, but only works if you have less than a gigabyte of available space on your smartphone or tablet.

Reddit user eavesdroppingyou first posted the clever trick which involves renting a movie from the iTunes Store – don't panic, it will not charge you for the purchase.

Eavesdroppingyou suggests choosing a lengthy high definition film, like 
The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers Special Extended Edition
 (which clocks in at an almighty 8.97GB).

For the trick to work, the film you attempt to rent from iTunes needs to exceed the amount of storage left on your Apple device.

Click on the Rent button next to the film – and a prompt will appear telling you that you do not have enough storage left to rent your selection.

There will be a choice of tapping 
OK
 or 
Settings
. Hit 
Settings
.

You will be thrown to the Settings menu on your device. Looking at 
General &gt; Storage &amp; iCloud Usage
, you might already notice that the available storage on your smartphone has increased.

This is because your iPhone will be quietly cleaning a number of your installed apps – removing data, cookies and in-app histories you no longer need.

Apple does kickstart this process automatically when you're particularly short on storage, but this is a great way to force the process.

The Reddit post suggests renting the same movie multiple times to free up more space – without having to delete any saved photos, music or apps.

One Reddit commenter posted: "That's actually clever. I just went from 800 MB to 4.9 GB free space."

"This is an awesome tip! Thank you! I went from 2.2GB free to 3.3 after a few tries.

"All apps show very little storage utilization now (cleans the cache). Awesome workaround!" another added.

One iPhone user posted about their success with the quick tip, commenting: "Wow! I went from 233 MB.... to 4.9 GB.

"I used Lawrence of Arabia (Restored Version) 8.19GB. Thank you."

If this 
doesn't wrestle back enough storage
 for you, 

Express.co.uk
 has some other tips to help you regain some previous gigabytes
.
