
Hackers have targeted elite dating website BeautifulPeople.com and stolen information from more than one million members.

According to web security expert Troy Hunt, information including sexual preferences, addresses, and income of dating website members was stolen in the cyberattack.

Some 15 million messages exchanged between those looking for love on BeautifulPeople.com were also taken. Other information believed to have been stolen includes weight, profession, height, education, eye and hair colour.

The stolen information of some 1.1 million members is now being sold on the black market, according to the researcher.

The initial hack first surfaced late last year, although it was claimed the stolen details were from a test server and therefore did not include any data on real members.

But security expert Troy Hunt told Forbes.com that all of the details obtained were legitimate.

BeautifulPeople.com is an elitist dating service where applicants are voted in-or-out based on ratings by members of the opposite sex within a 48-hour period.

According to the website's own blurb, "BeautifulPeople.com is the largest internet dating community exclusively for the beautiful.

"Members rate new applicants over a 48 hour period based on whether or not they find the applicant ‘beautiful’."

Of the one million members included in the hack, 170 of the email addresses are believed to be government related.

No credit card information was included in the leak, BeautifulPeople.com has claimed.

The Denmark-based website told the 
MailOnline
, "The data said to be accessible on the ‘dark web’ is the same data as the two security researches accessed and downloaded in the December 2015 breach.

"The breach involves data that was provided by members prior to mid July 2015.

"No more recent user data or any data relating to users who joined from mid July 2015 onward is affected.

"All impacted members are, of course, being notified once again. The data does not contain any credit card information and user passwords are encrypted.

"The privacy and security of our members is of paramount importance to us and this matter is being investigated."

The news follows the 
devastating cyberattack on extramarital affairs website, Ashley Madison
.
