

THE
 car moves steadily forward, and as it manoeuvres its way through the increasingly congested traffic landscape, you sit back and relax. Ensconced in a clean, comfortable vehicle, you converse with the driver about daily happenings, or you exchange texts and emails – either way, you're absolved of the stress that is inevitably attached to driving.

This probably sounds like a privilege that few can afford, but it has, in fact, become a reality for many urbanites, especially with the introduction of Uber. This multinational transport network company offers an exceptional alternative for people to get from point A to point B. 

Since its debut, this ride sharing programme has been divided in its popularity, and although much has been said about it, questions remain: who are these Uber drivers, and why are they doing this. 


PICK-UP POINT 


Harvey Tee and Kenneth Tee have been driving Uber in their free time since January. Harvey, 58, is a senior vice-president of finance and asset management with a hotel management company, and Kenneth, 24, is a crime reporter.

"I'm doing this because it's always good to have a second income, and more importantly, I like making new friends. 

"Driving people around is compelling because I get to meet people of all nationalities, and understand more about their culture and country. Besides, now that my children have grown up, I have free time on my hands," explained Harvey.

Sharing his father's passion in meeting people, Kenneth said that Harvey's participation encouraged him to follow suit a week later. 

"Since I'm in the journalism line, it's great to expand my network. Thanks to Uber's flexibility, in which I can decide when and how long I want to drive, I am able to kill time as well as make a few extra bucks," Kenneth revealed. 

Another driver who is benefiting from this app-based company is content strategist Shaheila Azmi. The 24-year-old began driving Uber because "it's very difficult to sustain a living in Kuala Lumpur with just one source of income".

"As a fresh graduate into my first job, it's impossible to have any savings at the end of the month. I'm Uber-ing part-time for my personal savings, as well as to fund my holidays," she said. 

Monetary-wise, weekend driver Harvey earns about RM160 per day, while Kenneth gets between RM80 and RM100 during his 12am to 5am shift, and Shaheila receives anything from RM50 to RM200.

"It depends on how hardworking you are. For full-time drivers, they can easily rack up to RM300 each day," added Shaheila.


A ROLLER COASTER JOURNEY


With good moment, bad experience, and funny episode, life is never dull for Uber drivers.

"As a female driver, my friends worry that it's dangerous since I'll be alone with passengers, but it's been an adventure so far. Furthermore, I've been told that there are more female drivers on the road now, and this is great news," divulged Shaheila. 

She also appreciates how, due to her age, her riders will advise her on time management, career progression, and maintaining relationships. In fact, good conversation is something that they all look forward to.So much so that Kenneth thinks "it's a shame, sometimes, when you have to  end your conversation abruptly at the destination".

Harvey, meanwhile, had a good laugh that one time he picked up the wrong passenger and they both didn't realise it until the trip has started. Asfor Kenneth, he confessed that he had a close brush with the police before. 

"I was driving three American backpackers back to their place when I was stopped at a police roadblock. The tourists had to provide their passports, but they didn't have it with them. It was only settled 30 minutes later when their friend showed up with the documents. This incident is definitely memorable for me," he disclosed.


IN FOR THE RIDE 


Come rain or shine, the father-and son pair is committed to doing this in the long run.

"I am still young, so I think this stint will do me a world of good. Yes, it's financially rewarding, but it's also heartwarming. For example, I have gotten the same rider, on a few different occasions, and it always feels like a catch up between old friends. It's heartening to know that, along the way, you've connected with someone," said Kenneth.

Likewise, Harvey opined, "Uber is a ride-sharing activity, but on more friendly terms, where I pick up one or two friends and they reimburse me for it. It's a different relationship than it is with cab drivers, and I'd say more unique too."

Shaheila, however, doesn't see herself doing this in the long term as she can't stand being cooped up in the car for long period of time.

"Although I only drive after work and only for an average of six  hours, driving takes up a lot of energy and focus – it drains me out very quickly. Hence, I admire those who can do it full-time," she explained.

Nevertheless, so long as there is a demand for efficient and affordable transport, these drivers will continue driving Uber forward.






















Kuala Lumpur

