

THE
 Asus ZenBook range has always been targeted at young, hard workers with high demands for a mobile computing device that needs to not only be powerful and portable but beautiful as well. 

While most of Asus models come with all the features to complement a fast-pace lifestyle, the ZenBook Pro UX501 that comes with a whopping 15.6in display addresses the needs of those who want their ultrabooks bigger and more powerful. 

The UX501 maintains the ZenBooks’ iconic metallic design complete with the signature spun-metal finish echoing the spirit of Zen on its lid. It also comes with stunning diamond-cut highlights as well as laser-engraved ripple-effect pattern for that touch of elegance.

Despite its hefty weight and build, the ultrabook is still rather sleek. 

Inside, there are more concentric ring design on two ends of the keyboard where you might think is where the Band &amp; Olufsen speakers are. 

The concentric design is purely aesthetic and the speakers, which perform pretty well in producing loud and clear audio, are actually below the machine.

The chiclet keyboard, which can be backlit illuminated, offers a decent typing experience as it has got good travel distance for you to savour. 

The ample real estate also means that you get a full-size numeric keypad too – something that wasn’t necessary for us but a feature, including the full-size arrow keys, that would appeal to those who look for them in a laptop. 

Meanwhile, the touchpad is a comfortable 4in-by-2.75in and is smooth to the touch with its matte finish. It is sensitive enough to read your two-finger scrolling and pinch-to-zoom but the left and right buttons tend to lack that satisfying, solid click. 

In terms of the display, we are only getting the variant with Full HD non-touch display here in Malaysia, which features technology that render more colours, more accurate colours and more vivid colours. 

Despite the enhanced colour accuracy, contrast and colour reproduction, a flagship such as this does not bear well to have such a big screen with only 1920px1080p resolution, not especially when we are in a time where even smartphones come with 4K display.  

The ‘Pro’ in its name isn’t for aesthetics but an indication that the UX501 means serious business. It delivers high performance with its 6th generation Intel Core i7 6700HQ processor, 8GB RAM, and gaming-grade graphics Nvidia GeForce GTX 960M with 4GB DDR5 VRAM. 

Where utilities are concerned, the ultrabook comes with a high-performance solid-state disk (SSD) with a PClex4 interface that delivers read/write speeds of up to 1400MB/s. 

The ultrabook also has one audio jack, one USB 3.1 Type C port, three USB 3.0 ports, one HDMI, and one Thunderbolt port.

There isn’t much to complain about the latest ZenBook. It makes up for its shortcomings with its impressive overall performance for everyday use. 

Coming with a two-year global warranty, the ZenBook Pro UX501 is selling at the recommended retail price of RM6,599.






















Kuala Lumpur

